"Otto H. Königsberger (13 October 1908 – 3 January 1999) was a German architect who worked mainly in urban development planning in Africa, Asia and Latin America, with the United Nations.[1][2][3]"
Bibliography
"The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where most of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum receives bile and pancreatic juice through the pancreatic duct, controlled by the sphincter of Oddi. The primary function of the small intestine is the absorption of nutrients and minerals from food.[2]"
"Rukmini Devi Arundale (29 February 1904 – 24 February 1986[1] ) was an Indian theosophist, dancer and choreographer of the Indian classical dance form of Bharatnatyam, and an activist for animal rights and welfare."
"She is considered the most important revivalist in the Indian classical dance form of Bharatnatyam from its original 'sadhir' style, prevalent amongst the temple dancers, Devadasis, she also worked for the re-establishment of traditional Indian arts and crafts."
"Though she belonged to the Indian upper-caste she espoused the cause of Bharata Natyam, which was considered a low and vulgar art in the early 1920s. Recognizing the beauty and the spiritual value of this art form, she not only learned the dance, but also presented it on stage despite strong public protests."
"Rukmini Devi features in India Today's list of '100 People Who Shaped India'.[2] She was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1956,[3] and Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship in 1967."
Early life and marriage
"Rukmini Devi was born on 29 February 1904 in an upper class Brahmin family in Madurai. Her father Neelakanta Sastri was an engineer with the Public Works Department and a scholar, and Seshammal was a music enthusiast. He had a transferable job and the family moved frequently. He was introduced to the Theosophical Society in 1901. Deeply influenced by the Theosophical Movement as a follower of Dr. Annie Besant, Neelakanta Sastri moved to Adyar, Chennai upon retirement, where he built his home near the headquarters of the Theosophical Society Adyar. It was here that young Rukmini was exposed to not just theosophical thought, but also new ideas on culture, theatre, music and dance, and later met the prominent British theosophist Dr. George Arundale, who was a close associate of Annie Besant and later the principal of the Central Hindu College in Varanasi, and soon build a lasting bond with him.[4]"
"Phurlijharan (/pʰurɵlid͡ʒʱɵrɵɳɵ/) is a perennial waterfall in Bhawanipatna, Kalahandi district, Odisha, India.[1][2][3][4][5] The falls is 16 m high and is known for its multicolored rainbow created on the scattered water because of the reflection of sunlight.[6] This is a known waterfall of the state and a tourist attraction for picnic. The falls is closer to the Karlapat wildlife sanctuary.[7]"
A 17th-century birch bark manuscript of Panini's grammar treatise from Kashmir.
"Pāṇini (IPA: [pɑːɳin̪i]; a patronymic meaning ""descendant of Paṇi""; fl. 4th century BCE[1][2] [3]), or Panini, was a Vyākaraṇin from the early mahajanapada era of ancient India.[4] He was born in Pushkalavati, Gandhara (on the outskirts of modern-day Charsadda, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan).[1][3]"
"Pāṇini is known for his Sanskrit grammar, particularly for his formulation of the 3,959 rules[3] of Sanskrit morphology, syntax and semantics in the grammar known as Aṣṭādhyāyī, meaning ""eight chapters""), the foundational text of the grammatical branch of the Vedanga, the auxiliary scholarly disciplines of the historical Vedic religion."
"The Ashtadhyayi is one of the earliest known grammars of Sanskrit, although Pāṇini refers to previous texts like the Unadisutra, Dhatupatha, and Ganapatha.[3] It is the earliest known work on linguistic description, and together with the work of his immediate predecessors (the Niruktas, Nighantus, and Pratishakyas) stands at the beginning of the history of linguistics itself. His theory of morphological analysis was more advanced than any equivalent Western theory before the mid 20th century,[5] and his analysis of noun compounds still forms the basis of modern linguistic theories of compounding, which have borrowed Sanskrit terms such as bahuvrihi and dvandva."
"Pāṇini's comprehensive and scientific theory of grammar is conventionally taken to mark the end of the period of Vedic Sanskrit, introducing the period of Classical Sanskrit."
Date and context
"Nothing definite is known about when Pāṇini lived, nor even in which century he lived. It is known that he was from the city of Pushkalavati in Gandhara. Most scholarship suggests a 4th-century BCE floruit (corresponding to the Pushkalavati archaeological site), contemporary to the Nanda Empire ruling the Indo-Gangetic Plain, but a 5th or even late 6th century BCE date cannot be ruled out with certainty.[citation needed] Pāṇini's grammar defines Classical Sanskrit, so Pāṇini by definition lived at the end of the Vedic period. He notes a few special rules, marked chandasi (""in the hymns"") to account for forms in the Vedas that had fallen out of use in the spoken language of his time. These indicate that Vedic Sanskrit was already archaic, but still comprehensible."
"An important hint for the dating of Pāṇini is the occurrence of the word yavanānī (in 4.1.49, either ""Greek woman"", or ""Greek alphabet"").[6] Some Greeks, such as the Persian admiral Scylax of Caryanda, were present in Gandhara as citizens of the Persian Empire well before the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 330s BC;[7] the name could also have been transmitted via Old Persian yauna and the administrative languages Elamite or Aramaic, so that the occurrence of yavanānī taken in isolation allows for a terminus post quem as early as 519 BCE, i.e. the time of Darius I's Behistun Inscription that included the province of Gandara (Sanskrit Gandhāra)."
"It is not certain whether Pāṇini used writing for the composition of his work, though it is generally agreed that he knew of a form of writing, based on references to words such as ""script"" and ""scribe"" in his Ashtadhyayi.[8] These must have referred to Aramaic or early Kharosthi.[citation needed] It is believed by some that a work of such complexity would have been difficult to compile without written notes, though others have argued that he might have composed it with the help of a group of students whose memories served him as ""notepads"" (as is typical in Vedic learning). Writing first reappears[citation needed] in India in the form of the Brahmi script from c. the 3rd century BCE in the Ashokan inscriptions."
"While Pāṇini's work is purely grammatical and lexicographic, cultural and geographical inferences can be drawn from the vocabulary he uses in examples, and from his references to fellow grammarians, which show he was a northwestern person. New deities referred to in his work include Vasudeva (4.3.98). The concept of dharma is attested in his example sentence (4.4.41) dharmam carati ""he observes the law"" (cf. Taittiriya Upanishad 1.11)."
Later biographical traditions and modern reception
"Nothing certain is known about Pāṇini's personal life. According to the Mahābhāṣya of Patanjali, his mother's name was Dākṣī.[9] Patañjali calls Pāṇini Dākṣīputra (meaning son of Dākṣī) at several places in the Mahābhāṣya.[9] According to later traditions, his maternal uncle's name was Vyāḍi.[10] Some scholars suggest that his brother's name was Piṅgala.[11] Not much is known about his father, whose name has been suggested as Paṇi,[citation needed] but most scholars reject this suggestion.[citation needed] Rambhadracharya gives the name of his father as Paṇina, from which the name Pāṇini derives.[9]"
"Panini is believed to have been born in Gandhara. Based on the Mahābhāṣya, it is believed that Śalātura was the birthplace of Pāṇini. In the Ashtadhyayi also, the place Śalātura is mentioned.[9] According to Xuanzang, a statue of him existed at Śalātura, the place of his birth.[12] Some writers identify Śalātura with the Shalatur village near Taxila in what is now the Punjab province of Pakistan.[13]"
"More than a thousand years after he lived, the Panchatantra mentioned that Pāṇini was killed by a lion.[14]"
Pāṇini was depicted on a five rupees Indian postage stamp in 2004.[15]
Aṣṭādhyāyī
"""World Teacher"" project"
"In 1909, soon after Besant's assumption of the presidency, Leadbeater ""discovered"" fourteen-year-old Jiddu Krishnamurti (1895–1986), a South Indian boy who had been living, with his father and brother, on the grounds of the headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, and declared him the probable ""vehicle"" for the expected ""World Teacher"".[35] The ""discovery"" and its objective received widespread publicity and attracted worldwide following, mainly among theosophists. It also started years of upheaval, and contributed to splits in the Theosophical Society and doctrinal schisms in theosophy. Following the discovery, Jiddu Krishnamurti and his younger brother Nityananda (""Nitya"") were placed under the care of theosophists and Krishnamurti was extensively groomed for his future mission as the new vehicle for the ""World Teacher"". Besant soon became the boys' legal guardian with the consent of their father, who was very poor and could not take care of them. However, his father later changed his mind and began a legal battle to regain the guardianship, against the will of the boys.[36] Early in their relationship, Krishnamurti and Besant had developed a very close bond and he considered her a surrogate mother – a role she happily accepted. (His biological mother had died when he was ten years old).[37]"
"In 1929, twenty years after his ""discovery"", Krishnamurti, who had grown disenchanted with the World Teacher Project, repudiated the role that many theosophists expected him to fulfil. He dissolved the Order of the Star in the East, an organisation founded to assist the World Teacher in his mission, and eventually left the Theosophical Society and theosophy at large.[38] He spent the rest of his life travelling the world as an unaffiliated speaker, becoming in the process widely known as an original, independent thinker on philosophical, psychological, and spiritual subjects. His love for Besant never waned, as also was the case with Besant's feelings towards him;[39] concerned for his wellbeing after he declared his independence, she had purchased 6 acres (2.4 ha) of land near the Theosophical Society estate which later became the headquarters of the Krishnamurti Foundation India ."
Home Rule movement
"Along with her theosophical activities, Besant continued to actively participate in political matters. She had joined the Indian National Congress. As the name suggested, this was originally a debating body, which met each year to consider resolutions on political issues. Mostly it demanded more of a say for middle-class Indians in British Indian government. It had not yet developed into a permanent mass movement with local organisation. About this time her co-worker Leadbeater moved to Sydney."
"In 1914 World War I broke out, and Britain asked for the support of its Empire in the fight against Germany. Echoing an Irish nationalist slogan, Besant declared, ""England's need is India's opportunity"". As editor of the New India newspaper, she attacked the colonial government of India and called for clear and decisive moves towards self-rule. As with Ireland, the government refused to discuss any changes while the war lasted."
"Annie Besant in Sydney, 1922"
"In 1916 Besant launched the All India Home Rule League along with Lokmanya Tilak, once again modelling demands for India on Irish nationalist practices. This was the first political party in India to have regime change as its main goal. Unlike the Congress itself, the League worked all year round. It built a structure of local branches, enabling it to mobilise demonstrations, public meetings and agitations. In June 1917 Besant was arrested and interned at a hill station, where she defiantly flew a red and green flag. The Congress and the Muslim League together threatened to launch protests if she were not set free; Besant's arrest had created a focus for protest.[40]"
"The government was forced to give way and to make vague but significant concessions. It was announced that the ultimate aim of British rule was Indian self-government, and moves in that direction were promised. Besant was freed in September 1917, welcomed by crowds all over India, and in December she took over as president of the Indian National Congress for a year."
"After the war, a new leadership emerged around Mohandas K. Gandhi – one of those who had written to demand Besant's release. He was a lawyer who had returned from leading Asians in a peaceful struggle against racism in South Africa. Jawaharlal Nehru, Gandhi's closest collaborator, had been educated by a theosophist tutor."
"The new leadership was committed to action that was both militant and non-violent, but there were differences between them and Besant. Despite her past, she was not happy with their socialist leanings. Until the end of her life, however, she continued to campaign for India's independence, not only in India but also on speaking tours of Britain.[41] In her own version of Indian dress, she remained a striking presence on speakers' platforms. She produced a torrent of letters and articles demanding independence."
Later years and death
"Besant tried as a person, theosophist, and president of the Theosophical Society, to accommodate Krishnamurti's views into her life, without success; she vowed to personally follow him in his new direction although she apparently had trouble understanding both his motives and his new message.[42] The two remained friends until the end of her life."
In 1931 she became ill in India.[43]
"Besant died on 20 September 1933, at age 85, in Adyar, Madras Presidency, British India. Her body was cremated.[44]"
"She was survived by her daughter, Mabel. After her death, colleagues Jiddu Krishnamurti, Aldous Huxley, Guido Ferrando, and Rosalind Rajagopal, built Happy Valley School, now renamed Besant Hill School in her honour."
Criticism of Christianity
"Besant opined that for centuries the leaders of Christian thought spoke of women as a necessary evil, and that the greatest saints of the Church were those who despised women the most, ""Against the teachings of eternal torture, of the vicarious atonement, of the infallibility of the Bible, I leveled all the strength of my brain and tongue, and I exposed the history of the Christian Church with unsparing hand, its persecutions, its religious wars, its cruelties, its oppressions. (Annie Besant, An Autobiography Chapter VII)."" In the section named ""Its Evidences Unreliable"" of her work ""Christianity"", Besant presents the case of why the Gospels are not authentic."
"1876: ""Christianity"", The freethinker's text-book, Part II. (Issued by authority of the National Secular Society) ; (D.) That before about A.D. 180 there is no trace of FOUR gospels among the Christians.  ...As it is not pretended by any that there is any mention of four Gospels before the time of Irenaeus, excepting this ""harmony,"" pleaded by some as dated about A.D. 170 and by others as between 170 and 180, it would be sheer waste of time and space to prove further a point admitted on all hands. This step of our argument is, then on solid and unassailable ground —That before about A.D. 180 there is no trace of FOUR gospels among the Christians. (E.) That, before that date, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, are not selected as the four evangelists. This position necessarily follows from the preceding one [D.], since four evangelists could not be selected until four Gospels were recognised. Here, again, Dr. Giles supports the argument we are building up. He says : ""Justin Martyr never once mentions by name the evangelists Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. This circumstance is of great importance ; for those who assert that our four canonical Gospels are contemporary records of our Saviour's ministry, ascribe them to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and to no other writers.""[46][47]"
Works
"Besides being a prolific writer, Besant was a ""practised stump orator"" who gave sixty-six public lectures in one year. She also engaged in public debates.[21] List of Works on Online Books List of Work on Open Library"
"The Political Status of Women (1874)[48] Christianity: Its Evidences, Its Origin, Its Morality, Its History (1876) The Law of Population (1877) My Path to Atheism (1878, 3rd ed 1885) Marriage, As It Was, As It Is, And As It Should Be: A Plea for Reform (1878) The Atheistic Platform: 12 Lectures One by Besant (1884) Autobiographical Sketches (1885) Why I Am a Socialist (1886) Why I Became a Theosophist (1889) The Seven Principles of Man (1892) Bhagavad Gita (translated as The Lord's Song) (1895) The Ancient Wisdom (1898) Thought Forms (1901) The Religious Problem in India (1901) Thought Power: Its Control and Culture (1901) Esoteric Christianity (1905 2nd ed) A Study in Consciousness: A contribution to the science of psychology. (ca 1907, rpt 1918) An Introduction to Yoga (1908) Australian Lectures(1908) Annie Besant: An Autobiography (1908 2nd ed) The Religious Problem in India Lectures on Islam, Jainism, Sikhism, Theosophy (1909) Man and His Bodies (1896, rpt 1911) Initiation: The Perfecting of Man (1912) Man's Life in This and Other Worlds (1913) Man: Whence, How and Whither with C. W. Leadbeater (1913) Occult Chemistry with C. W. Leadbeater (1919) The Doctrine of the Heart (1920) The Future of Indian Politics 1922 The Life and Teaching of Muhammad (1932) Memory and Its Nature (1935) Various writings regarding Helena Blavatsky (1889–1910) Selection of Pamphlets as follows:"
"""Sin and Crime"" (1885) ""God's Views on Marriage"" (1890) ""A World Without God"" (1885) ""Life, Death, and Immortality"" (1886) ""The World and Its God"" (1886) ""Atheism and Its Bearing on Morals"" (1887) ""On Eternal Torture"" (n.d.) ""The Fruits of Christianity"" (n.d.) ""The Jesus of the Gospels and the Influence of Christianity"" (n.d.) ""The Gospel of Christianity and the Gospel of Freethought"" (1883) ""Sins of the Church: Threatenings and Slaughters"" (n.d.) ""For the Crown and Against the Nation"" (1886) ""Christian Progress"" (1890) ""Why I Do Not Believe in God"" (1887) ""The Myth of the Resurrection"" (1886) ""The Teachings of Christianity"" (1887)"
"Annie Besant School Allahabad History of feminism Man: whence, how and whither"
See also
"Annie Besant (1 October 1847 – 20 September 1933) was a prominent British socialist, theosophist, women's rights activist, writer and orator and supporter of Irish and Indian self-rule."
"In 1867, Annie at age 20, married Frank Besant, a clergyman, and they had two children, but Annie's increasingly anti-religious views led to a legal separation in 1873.[1] She then became a prominent speaker for the National Secular Society (NSS) and writer and a close friend of Charles Bradlaugh. In 1877 they were prosecuted for publishing a book by birth control campaigner Charles Knowlton. The scandal made them famous, and Bradlaugh was elected M.P. for Northampton in 1880."
"She became involved with union actions including the Bloody Sunday demonstration and the London matchgirls strike of 1888. She was a leading speaker for the Fabian Society and the Marxist Social Democratic Federation (SDF). She was elected to the London School Board for Tower Hamlets, topping the poll even though few women were qualified to vote at that time."
"In 1890 Besant met Helena Blavatsky and over the next few years her interest in theosophy grew while her interest in secular matters waned. She became a member of the Theosophical Society and a prominent lecturer on the subject. As part of her theosophy-related work, she travelled to India. In 1898 she helped establish the Central Hindu College and in 1922 she helped establish the Hyderabad (Sind) National Collegiate Board in Mumbai, India.[2][3] In 1902, she established the first overseas Lodge of the International Order of Co-Freemasonry, Le Droit Humain. Over the next few years she established lodges in many parts of the British Empire. In 1907 she became president of the Theosophical Society, whose international headquarters were in Adyar, Madras, (Chennai)."
"She also became involved in politics in India, joining the Indian National Congress. When World War I broke out in 1914, she helped launch the Home Rule League to campaign for democracy in India and dominion status within the Empire. This led to her election as president of the India National Congress in late 1917. In the late 1920s, Besant travelled to the United States with her protégé and adopted son Jiddu Krishnamurti, whom she claimed was the new Messiah and incarnation of Buddha. Krishnamurti rejected these claims in 1929.[1] After the war, she continued to campaign for Indian independence and for the causes of theosophy, until her death in 1933."
"St. Margaret's church, Sibsey, where Frank Besant was vicar, 1871–1917"
"Annie Wood was born in 1847 in London into a middle-class family of Irish origin. She was proud of her heritage and supported the cause of Irish self-rule throughout her adult life. Her father died when she was five years old, leaving the family almost penniless. Her mother supported the family by running a boarding house for boys at Harrow School. However, she was unable to support Annie and persuaded her friend Ellen Marryat to care for her. Marryat made sure that Besant had a good education. She was given a strong sense of duty to society and an equally strong sense of what independent women could achieve.[4] As a young woman, she was also able to travel widely in Europe. There she acquired a taste for Roman Catholic colour and ceremony that never left her."
"In 1867, at age twenty, she married 26-year-old clergyman Frank Besant (1840–1917), younger brother of Walter Besant. He was an evangelical Anglican who seemed to share many of her concerns.[4] On the eve of her marriage, she had become more politicised through a visit to friends in Manchester, who brought her into contact with both English radicals and the Manchester Martyrs of the Irish Republican Fenian Brotherhood,[5] as well as with the conditions of the urban poor."
Annie Besant
"Grave of Frank Besant at Sibsey, where he remained vicar until his death"
"Soon Frank became vicar of Sibsey in Lincolnshire. Annie moved to Sibsey with her husband, and within a few years they had two children, Arthur and Mabel; however, the marriage was a disaster. As Annie wrote in her Autobiography, ""we were an ill-matched pair.""[6] The first conflict came over money and Annie's independence. Annie wrote short stories, books for children, and articles. As married women did not have the legal right to own property, Frank was able to take all the money she earned. Politics further divided the couple. Annie began to support farm workers who were fighting to unionise and to win better conditions. Frank was a Tory and sided with the landlords and farmers. The tension came to a head when Annie refused to attend Communion. In 1873 she left him and returned to London. They were legally separated and Annie took her daughter with her."
"Besant began to question her own faith. She turned to leading churchmen for advice, going to see Edward Bouverie Pusey, one of the leaders of the Oxford Movement within the Church of England. When she asked him to recommend books that would answer her questions, he told her she had read too many already.[7] Besant returned to Frank to make a last unsuccessful effort to repair the marriage. She finally left for London."
Birkbeck
"For a short time she undertook part-time study at the Birkbeck Literary and Scientific Institution, where her religious and political activities caused alarm. At one point the Institution's governors sought to withhold the publication of her exam results.[8]"
Reformer and secularist
Annie Besant – 1880s
"She fought for the causes she thought were right, starting with freedom of thought, women's rights, secularism, birth control, Fabian socialism and workers' rights.. She was a leading member of the National Secular Society alongside Charles Bradlaugh and the South Place Ethical Society.[9]"
"Divorce was unthinkable for Frank, and was not really within the reach of even middle-class people. Annie was to remain Mrs Besant for the rest of her life. At first, she was able to keep contact with both children and to have Mabel live with her; she also got a small allowance from her husband."
"Once free of Frank Besant and exposed to new currents of thought, she began to question not only her long-held religious beliefs but also the whole of conventional thinking. She began to write attacks on the churches and the way they controlled people's lives. In particular she attacked the status of the Church of England as a state-sponsored faith."
"Soon she was earning a small weekly wage by writing a column for the National Reformer, the newspaper of the NSS. The NSS argued for a secular state and an end to the special status of Christianity, and allowed her to act as one of its public speakers. Public lectures were very popular entertainment in Victorian times. Besant was a brilliant speaker, and was soon in great demand. Using the railway, she criss-crossed the country, speaking on all of the most important issues of the day, always demanding improvement, reform and freedom."
"For many years Besant was a friend of the National Secular Society's leader, Charles Bradlaugh. Bradlaugh, a former soldier, had long been separated from his wife; Besant lived with him and his daughters, and they worked together on many projects. He was an atheist and a republican; he was also trying to get elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Northampton."
Descendants
"The subsequent family history became fragmented. A number of Besant's descendants have been traced in detail from her son Arthur Digby's side. One of Arthur Digby's daughters was Sylvia Besant, who married Commander Clem Lewis in the 1920s. They had a daughter, Kathleen Mary, born in 1934, who was given away for adoption within three weeks of the birth and had the new name of Lavinia Pollock. Lavinia married Frank Castle in 1953 and raised a family of five of Besant's great-great-grandchildren – James, Richard, David, Fiona and Andrew Castle – the last and youngest sibling being a former British professional tennis player and now television presenter and personality."
"Besant and Bradlaugh became household names in 1877 when they published a book by the American birth-control campaigner Charles Knowlton. It claimed that working-class families could never be happy until they were able to decide how many children they wanted. It suggested ways to limit the size of their families. The Knowlton book was highly controversial, and was vigorously opposed by the Church. Besant and Bradlaugh proclaimed in the National Reformer:"
We intend to publish nothing we do not think we can morally defend. All that we publish we shall defend.[10]
"The pair were arrested and put on trial for publishing the Knowlton book. They were found guilty, but released pending appeal. As well as great opposition, Besant and Bradlaugh also received a great deal of support in the Liberal press. Arguments raged back and forth in the letters and comment columns as well as in the courtroom. Besant was instrumental in founding the Malthusian League during the trial, which would go on to advocate for the abolition of penalties for the promotion of contraception.[11] For a time, it looked as though they would be sent to prison. The case was thrown out finally only on a technical point, the charges not having been properly drawn up."
"The scandal cost Besant custody of her children. Her husband was able to persuade the court that she was unfit to look after them, and they were handed over to him permanently."
"On 6 March 1881 she spoke at the opening of Leicester Secular Society's new Secular Hall in Humberstone Gate, Leicester. The other speakers were George Jacob Holyoake, Harriet Law and Charles Bradlaugh.[12]"
Annie Besant
"Bradlaugh's political prospects were not damaged by the Knowlton scandal and he was elected to Parliament in 1881. Because of his atheism, he asked to be allowed to affirm rather than swear the oath of loyalty. When the possibility of affirmation was refused, Bradlaugh stated his willingness to take the oath. But this option was also challenged. Although many Christians were shocked by Bradlaugh, others (like the Liberal leader Gladstone) spoke up for freedom of belief. It took more than six years before the matter was completely resolved (in Bradlaugh's favour) after a series of by-elections and court appearances."
"Meanwhile, Besant built close contacts with the Irish Home Rulers and supported them in her newspaper columns during what are considered crucial years, when the Irish nationalists were forming an alliance with Liberals and Radicals. Besant met the leaders of the Irish home rule movement. In particular, she got to know Michael Davitt, who wanted to mobilise the Irish peasantry through a Land War, a direct struggle against the landowners. She spoke and wrote in favour of Davitt and his Land League many times over the coming decades."
"However, Bradlaugh's parliamentary work gradually alienated Besant. Women had no part in parliamentary politics. Besant was searching for a real political outlet, where her skills as a speaker, writer and organiser could do some real good."
Political activism
"For Besant, politics, friendship and love were always closely intertwined. Her decision in favour of Socialism came about through a close relationship with George Bernard Shaw, a struggling young Irish author living in London, and a leading light of the Fabian Society. Annie was impressed by his work and grew very close to him too in the early 1880s. It was Besant who made the first move, by inviting Shaw to live with her. This he refused, but it was Shaw who sponsored Besant to join the Fabian Society. In its early days, the society was a gathering of people exploring spiritual, rather than political, alternatives to the capitalist system.[13] Besant began to write for the Fabians. This new commitment – and her relationship with Shaw – deepened the split between Besant and Bradlaugh, who was an individualist and opposed to Socialism of any sort. While he defended free speech at any cost, he was very cautious about encouraging working-class militancy.[14]"
"Unemployment was a central issue of the time, and in 1887 some of the London unemployed started to hold protests in Trafalgar Square. Besant agreed to appear as a speaker at a meeting on 13 November. The police tried to stop the assembly, fighting broke out, and troops were called. Many were hurt, one man died, and hundreds were arrested; Besant offered herself for arrest, an offer disregarded by the police.[15]"
"The events created a great sensation, and became known as Bloody Sunday. Besant was widely blamed – or credited – for it. She threw herself into organising legal aid for the jailed workers and support for their families.[16] Bradlaugh finally broke with her because he felt she should have asked his advice before going ahead with the meeting."
"Another activity in this period was her involvement in the London matchgirls strike of 1888. She was drawn into this battle of the ""New Unionism"" by a young socialist, Herbert Burrows. He had made contact with workers at Bryant and May's match factory in Bow, London, who were mainly young women and were very poorly paid. They were also prey to industrial illnesses, like the bone-rotting Phossy jaw, which was caused by the chemicals used in match manufacture.[17] Some of the match workers asked for help from Burrows and Besant in setting up a union."
"Besant met the women and set up a committee, which led the women into a strike for better pay and conditions, an action that won public support. Besant led demonstrations by ""match-girls"", who were cheered in the streets, and prominent churchmen wrote in their support. In just over a week they forced the firm to improve pay and conditions. Besant then helped them to set up a proper union and a social centre."
"At the time, the matchstick industry was a very powerful lobby, since electric light was not yet widely available, and matches were an essential commodity; in 1872, lobbyists from the match industry had persuaded the British government to change its planned tax policy. Besant's campaign was the first time anyone had successfully challenged the match manufacturers on a major issue, and was seen as a landmark victory of the early years of British Socialism."
"During 1884, Besant had developed a very close friendship with Edward Aveling, a young socialist teacher who lived in her house for a time. Aveling was a scholarly figure and it was he who first translated the important works of Marx into English. He eventually went to live with Eleanor Marx, daughter of Karl Marx. Aveling was a great influence on Besant's thinking and she supported his work, yet she moved towards the rival Fabians at that time. Aveling and Eleanor Marx had joined the Marxist Social Democratic Federation and then the Socialist League, a small Marxist splinter group which formed around the artist William Morris."
"It seems that Morris played a large part in converting Besant to Marxism, but it was to the SDF, not his Socialist League, that she turned in 1888. She remained a member for a number of years and became one of its best speakers. She was still a member of the Fabian Society; neither she nor anyone else seemed to think the two movements incompatible at the time."
"Soon after joining the Marxists, Besant was elected to the London School Board in 1888.[18] Women at that time were not able to take part in parliamentary politics, but had been brought into the local electorate in 1881."
"Besant drove about with a red ribbon in her hair, speaking at meetings. ""No more hungry children,"" her manifesto proclaimed. She combined her socialist principles with feminism: ""I ask the electors to vote for me, and the non-electors to work for me because women are wanted on the Board and there are too few women candidates."" Besant came out on top of the poll in Tower Hamlets, with over 15,000 votes. She wrote in the National Reformer: ""Ten years ago, under a cruel law, Christian bigotry robbed me of my little child. Now the care of the 763,680 children of London is placed partly in my hands.""[19]"
"Besant was also involved in the London Dock Strike, in which the dockers, who were employed by the day, were led by Ben Tillett in a struggle for the ""Dockers' Tanner"". Besant helped Tillett draw up the union's rules and played an important part in the meetings and agitation which built up the organisation. She spoke for the dockers at public meetings and on street corners. Like the match-girls, the dockers won public support for their struggle, and the strike was won.[20]"
Theosophy
"Besant was a prolific writer and a powerful orator.[21] In 1889, she was asked to write a review for the Pall Mall Gazette[22] on The Secret Doctrine, a book by H. P. Blavatsky. After reading it, she sought an interview with its author, meeting Blavatsky in Paris. In this way she was converted to Theosophy. Besant's intellectual journey had always involved a spiritual dimension, a quest for transformation of the whole person. As her interest in theosophy deepened, she allowed her membership of the Fabian Society to lapse (1890) and broke her links with the Marxists. In her Autobiography, Besant follows her chapter on ""Socialism"" with ""Through Storm to Peace,"" the peace of Theosophy. In 1888, she described herself as ""marching toward the Theosophy"" that would be the ""glory"" of her life. Besant had found the economic side of life lacking, so she searched for a belief based on ""Love"". She found this in Theosophy, so she joined the Theosophical Society, a move that distanced her from Bradlaugh and other former activist co-workers.[23] When Blavatsky died in 1891, Besant was left as one of the leading figures in theosophy and in 1893 she represented it at the Chicago World Fair.[24]"
"In 1893, soon after becoming a member of the Theosophical Society she went to India for the first time.[25] After a dispute the American section split away into an independent organisation. The original society, then led by Henry Steel Olcott and Besant, is today based in Chennai, India, and is known as the Theosophical Society Adyar. Following the split Besant devoted much of her energy not only to the society, but also to India's freedom and progress. Besant Nagar, a neighbourhood near the Theosophical Society in Chennai, is named in her honour."
Co-freemasonry
"Besant saw freemasonry, in particular Co-Freemasonry, as an extension of her interest in the rights of women and the greater brotherhood of man and saw co-freemasonry as a ""movement which practised true brotherhood, in which women and men worked side by side for the perfecting of humanity. She immediately wanted to be admitted to this organisation"", known now as The International Order of Co-Freemasonry, Le Droit Humain."
"The link was made in 1902 by the theosophist Francesca Arundale, who accompanied Besant to Paris, along with six friends. ""They were all initiated, passed and raised into the first three degrees and Annie returned to England, bearing a Charter and founded there the first Lodge of International Mixed Masonry, Le Droit Humain."" Besant eventually became the Order's Most Puissant Grand Commander, and was a major influence in the international growth of the Order.[26]"
President of Theosophical Society
"Annie Besant with Henry Olcott (left) and Charles Leadbeater (right) in Adyar, Madras in December 1905"
"Besant met fellow theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater in London in April 1894. They became close co-workers in the theosophical movement and would remain so for the rest of their lives. Leadbeater claimed clairvoyance and reputedly helped Besant become clairvoyant herself in the following year. In a letter dated 25 August 1895 to Francisca Arundale, Leadbeater narrates how Besant became clairvoyant. Together they clairvoyantly investigated the universe, matter, thought-forms, and the history of mankind, and co-authored a book called Occult Chemistry."
"In 1906 Leadbeater became the centre of controversy when it emerged that he had advised the practice of masturbation to some boys under his care and spiritual instruction. Leadbeater stated he had encouraged the practice to keep the boys celibate, which was considered a prerequisite for advancement on the spiritual path.[27] Due to the controversy, he offered to resign from the Theosophical Society in 1906, which was accepted. The next year Besant became president of the society and in 1908, with her express support, Leadbeater was readmitted to the society. Leadbeater went on to face accusations of improper relations with boys, but none of the accusations were ever proven and Besant never deserted him.[28]"
"Until Besant's presidency, the society had as one of its foci Theravada Buddhism and the island of Sri Lanka, where Henry Olcott did the majority of his useful work.[29] Under Besant's leadership there was more stress on the teachings of ""The Aryavarta"", as she called central India, as well as on esoteric Christianity.[30]"
"Besant set up a new school for boys, the Central Hindu College (CHC) at Banaras which was formed on underlying theosophical principles, and which counted many prominent theosophists in its staff and faculty. Its aim was to build a new leadership for India. The students spent 90 minutes a day in prayer and studied religious texts, but they also studied modern science. It took 3 years to raise the money for the CHC, most of which came from Indian princes.[31] In April 1911, Besant met Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya and they decided to unite their forces and work for a common Hindu University at Varanasi. Besant and fellow trustees of the Central Hindu College also agreed to Government of India's precondition that the college should become a part of the new University. The Banaras Hindu University started functioning from 1 October 1917 with the Central Hindu College as its first constituent college."
"Blavatsky had stated in 1889 that the main purpose of establishing the society was to prepare humanity for the future reception of a ""torch-bearer of Truth"", an emissary of a hidden Spiritual Hierarchy that, according to theosophists, guides the evolution of mankind.[32] This was repeated by Besant as early as 1896; Besant came to believe in the imminent appearance of the ""emissary"", who was identified by theosophists as the so-called World Teacher.[33][34]"
"Thought-form of the music of Charles Gounod, according to Besant and C. W. Leadbeater in Thought-Forms (1901)"
"Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American businessman, television personality, and a candidate for the Republican nomination for President of the United States in the 2016 election. He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts, a gaming and hotel enterprise that was purchased out of bankruptcy by Carl Icahn in 2016. His business activities, television work, outspoken manner, and personal life have made him an international celebrity."
Filmography
Year Film Role Language Notes 2016 Sisters Sudha Marathi Under Production 2013 Ameerin Aadhi Bhagavan Indra Sundaramurthy Tamil 2013 Cleopatra Malayalam 2011 Venghai Thamanna's Mother Tamil 2010 Alexander the Great (2010 film) Gayathri Devi Malayalam 2008 Sathyam Sathyam's mother Tamil 2006 Shaadi Karke Phas Gaya Yaar Doctor Hindi 2006 Malamaal Weekly Thakurain Hindi 2004 Smile please Tulsi Hindi 2000 Tune Mera Dil Le Liyaa Rani (Veeru's girlfriend) Hindi 1999 Hum Aapke Dil Mein Rehte Hain Manju Hindi 1999 Maa Baap Ne Bhulso Nahi Sharda Gujarati 1995 Milan Jaya 1995 Raghuveer Aarti Verma 1994 Anjaam Shivani's sister Hindi 1994 Daldu Chorayu Dhire Dhire 1994 Baali Umar Ko Salaam 1993 Phoolan Hasina Ramkali 1992 Nishchaiy Julie Hindi 1992 aka Nishchay India: Hindi title: video box title 1992 Inteha Pyar Ki Dancer at Tania's wedding Hindi 1992 Qaid Mein Hai Bulbul Julie 1992 Shola Aur Shabnam Karan's Sister Hindi 1992 Insaaf Ki Devi Sita S. Prakash Hindi 1991 Kurbaan Prithvi's sister Hindi 1991 Jaan Pechaan Hema 1991 Jeene Ki Sazaa Sheetal 1990 Thanedaar Mrs. Jagdish Chandra Hindi 1990 Pati Parmeshwar Hindi 1988 Olavina Aasare Kannada 1988 Thanga Kalasam Tamil 1987 Kalam Mari Katha Mari Arifa Malayalam 1987 Ival Oru Pournami Tamil 1987 Chinna Thambi Periya Thambi Tamil 1987 Chinna Puve Mella Pesu Shanthi Tamil 1986 Malarum Kiliyum Rekha Malayalam 1986 Dharmam Tamil 1986 Vasantha Ragam Tamil 1986 Nambinar Keduvathillai Tamil 1986 Sarvam Sakthimayam Sivakami Tamil 1986 Naache Mayuri Mayuri Hindi 1984 Mayuri (film) Telugu
Special Jury Award : Mayuri - 1986 The Great Indian Television Academy Awards Best Actress in a negative role : Tumhari Disha - 2005 Vijay Television Awards 2014- Best Supporting Actress - Deivam Thandha Veedu Vijay Television Awards 2015- Best Mother in Law- Deivam Thandha Veedu
See also
List of Indian film actresses
"Sudha Chandran is an accomplished Bharatanatyam dancer and Indian film and television actress, who turned to acting following the loss of a leg in an accident while coming back from Madras with her parents in a car on June 1981 near Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu. She is well known for her roles as Ramola Sikand in Kaahin Kissii Roz and as Yamini in Naagin and also for playing Anand's first wife in Hum Paanch (season two)."
"Sudha was born in Kerala on 21 September 1964.[1] Her father K. D. Chandran hails from Irinjalakuda and her mother Thankam hails from Kuzhalmannam , Palakkad.[2] She earned her B.A from Mithibai College, Mumbai and subsequently an M.A in Economics. In June 1981, while travelling in Tamil Nadu, she met with an accident in which her legs were wounded. She received initial medical treatment of her injuries at a local hospital and was later admitted to Vijaya Hospital at Madras. After doctors discovered that gangrene had formed on her right leg, amputation was required.[3] Chandran says that this period was the toughest time of her life. She subsequently overcame her disability with the help of a prosthetic 'Jaipur foot', becoming one of the most highly acclaimed dancers of the Indian subcontinent.[4] Her decision to dance again after a gap of two years was met by thunderous applause. She received invitations from all over the world for performances. She was honored with various awards. She performed as far away from home as Europe, Canada and the Middle East. Soon after, she catapulted to fame and recognition by venturing into the world of films and television. She gained fame after the tragic incident. Now she has become an inspiration to many.[2]"
"Sudha Chandran has done several films in various languages. The 1984 Telugu film Mayuri, in which she plays herself, was inspired by her life story. The 1986 film Nache Mayuri was a Hindi remake of the Telugu original, in which the cast was changed except for Sudha to suit the North Indian sensibilities. She was awarded the 1986 Special Jury Award at the National Film Awards for her performance in Mayuri."
"Her career in television includes Kaahin Kissii Roz where she often cited as a symbol of ""will power"".[citation needed] She is also one among the judges in popular reality show Super Dancer Junior Series on Amrita TV and was a judge for the reality dance show Maanada Mayilada in the sixth season. Currently one of her projects includes replacing Aishwarya and playing the role of Bhuvana in Thendral."
Family
She is married to Ravi Dang in 1986. The couple have no children.[2]
Television
Title Role Channel Naagin (2015 TV series) Yamini Ankush Raheja Colors TV Shastri Sisters Buaji Colors TV Kaisa Yeh Ishq Hai... Ajab Sa Risk Hai Lohari Life OK Soundravalli Akilandeshwari Jaya jj TV Antaraal - DD National Arasi 'Madurai' Thilakavathy Sun TV Bahuraniyan - DD Metro Chandrakanta Stayavati(Shivdutt's mother) DD National Chashme Baddoor - Zee TV Tum Bin Jaaoon Kahaan Guruma Zee tv Hamari Bahu Tulsi Tulsi DD National Hum Paanch(Season Two) Anand's first wife Zee TV Jaane Bhi Do Paaro - DD Metro K. Street Pali Hill Gayatri Kaul STAR Plus Kaahin Kissii Roz Ramola Sikand STAR Plus Kaise Kahoon - Zee TV Kalasam Chandramathi Sun TV Kasturi Maasi STAR Plus Kuchh Is Tara Mallika Nanda Sony TV Kya Dill Mein Hai Rajeshwari Devi 9X Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi Justice Renuka Chaudhary / ACP Ragini Suryavanshi STAR Plus Saath Saath - DD Metro Solhah Singaarr Rajeshwari Devi Sahara One Tumhari Disha Disha's mother Zee TV Kashmakash Zindagi Ki Rajlaxmi DD National Kathaparayum Kavyanjali Rajlaxmi Surya TV Soundaravalli Akhilandeswari Jaya TV Jaiyam Padma Jaya TV Pondatti Thevai Rajalakshmi Sun TV Super Dancer Junior 4 Herself Amrita TV Tharkappu Kalai Theeratha Appa Sun TV Thaka Thimi Tha Herself Jaya TV Thendral Bhuvana Sun TV Jhilmil Sitaaron Ka Aangan Hoga Kalyani Devi Raichand Sahara One Adaalat Indrani (Prosecution lawyers) Sony Entertainment Television India Dil Se Di Dua... Saubhagyavati Bhava? Mrs. Vyas Life OK Jallosh Suvarnayugacha Judge ETV Marathi Ek Thhi Naayka Uma Biswas Life OK Aardram Sudha Pillai as retired Jedgy Asianet Deivam thandha Veedu Chithra Devi Star Vijay Super Star Junior Reality Show Amrita TV Har Mushkil Ka Hal Akbar aur Birbal Bhavani Big magic Solvathellam Unmai Program Host Zee Tamizh Mata Ki Chowki Maha Shweta Devi Sahara One Deivam Thanda Veedu Chitra Devi Vijay tv
"Kasturi Pattanaik is a performer of Odissi dance, which is one of the eight classical dance forms of India. She is associated with the Odissi Research Centre (ORC), Bhubaneswar, particularly in choreography and training of its students for over two decades. She was one of the students to pass out from the first batch of the Odissi Research Centre."
Profile
"Kasturi Pattanaik is a performer, composer, teacher, and choreographer of Odissi.[1] She is well-acclaimed as a seniormost exponent of Odissi dance form .[2] She is both a soloist and group performer, focusing on Odissi dance drama, which blends the classical and folk traditions of Odisha, Indian mythology, and historical and social issues."
Kasturi Pattanaik
"The black drongo (Dicrurus macrocercus) is a small Asian passerine bird of the drongo family Dicruridae. It is a common resident breeder in much of tropical southern Asia from southwest Iran through India and Sri Lanka east to southern China and Indonesia. It is a wholly black bird with a distinctive forked tail and measures 28 cm (11 in) in length. Feeding on insects, it is common in open agricultural areas and light forest throughout its range, perching conspicuously on a bare perch or along power or telephone lines. The species is known for its aggressive behaviour towards much larger birds, such as crows, never hesitating to dive-bomb any bird of prey that invades its territory. This behaviour earns it the informal name of king crow. Smaller birds often nest in the well-guarded vicinity of a nesting black drongo. Previously considered a subspecies (Dicrurus adsimilis macrocercus) of the African fork-tailed drongo (Dicrurus adsimilis), it is now recognized as a full species."
Churchill stares down the barrel of a captured Belgian 75 mm field gun.
"Lieutenant-Colonel John Malcolm Thorpe Fleming ""Jack"" Churchill, DSO & Bar, MC & Bar (16 September 1906 – 8 March 1996) was a British Army officer who fought throughout the Second World War armed with a longbow, bagpipes, and a basket-hilted Scottish broadsword."
"Nicknamed ""Fighting Jack Churchill"" and ""Mad Jack"", he is known for the motto: ""Any officer who goes into action without his sword is improperly dressed."" It is claimed that Churchill also carried out the last recorded longbow and arrow killing in action, shooting a German NCO in 1940 in a French village during the Battle of France.[1]"
Early life
Jack Churchill
February 1974
""
""
Witney
""
""
"Cameron is the younger son of Ian Donald Cameron (1932–2010), a stockbroker, and his wife Mary Fleur, née Mount (born 1934),[5] a retired Justice of the Peace and a daughter of Sir William Mount, 2nd Baronet.[6] Cameron's parents were married on 20 October 1962.[5] The journalist Toby Young has described Cameron's background as being ""upper-upper-middle class"".[7]"
"Cameron has said, ""On my mother's side of the family, her mother was a Llewellyn, so Welsh. I'm a real mixture of Scottish, Welsh, and English.""[15] He has also referenced the German Jewish ancestry of one of his great-grandfathers, Arthur Levita, a descendant of the Yiddish author Elia Levita.[16][17]"
Welsh
""
David Cameron
""
""
"The floating pagoda of the Coconut Religion, photographed in 1969"
"The Coconut Religion (Tinh Do Cu Si)[1] is a now-discontinued religion indigenous to southern Vietnam's ""Coconut Kingdom"", where it was founded in 1963. The religion is largely based on some Buddhist and Christian beliefs, alongside the teachings of founder Nguyễn Thành Nam, a Vietnamese scholar. The religion was abolished by Vietnamese authorities in 1975. At its peak, the religion had some 4,000 followers."
Practice
The Coconut Religion advocates consuming only coconuts and drinking only coconut milk.[2] Monks of the religion were permitted to wed up to nine wives.[3]
"Isaac Santra was an Indian physician, gandhian and social worker,[1] known for his contributions for the eradication of Leprosy from India.[2][3] The Government of India honoured him in 1956, with the award of Padma Shri, the fourth highest Indian civilian award for his services to the nation.[4]"
"Isaac Santra was born on 3 November 1892[5] in Sambalpur in the western part of the Indian state of Odisha to a pastor and his wife in a family with meagre financial resources.[1] Going against the wishes of his father who wanted the young Isaac to be pastor,[5] he did his schooling in Sambalpur and joined Shri Ramachandra Bhanj Medical College, Cuttack in 1919 to secure a medical degree. His experience during his medical education and the social stigma associated with the disease of leprosy impacted the young man and he decided to pursue his career treating the disease.[1] Santra started his medical career by joining the Central Government service and headed the Leprosy Survey of India during 1927 to 1931. In 1932, he was selected as a member of the Leprosy Prevention Society of Great Britain and retained the position till his retirement in 1947.[1] He also served on deputation to countries such as Japan and Nigeria during various occasions as Leprosy Expert of the International Leprosy Association.[6] Notes on Leprosy in Japan is a publication he has brought out in 1953, post his service in Japan.[7]"
"After retirement from government service, Santra tried to gather resources and, by obtaining government assistance, he founded Hatibari Kushtashram,[3][5] in 1951, later to be known as Hatibari Health Home,[8] in Hatibari, a village near the border between Odisha and West Bengal states.[2][9] At a time when Dapsone, a drug for the treatment of leprosy was yet to be formulated, he turned to ancient Indian scriptures such as Sushruta Samhita and came out with a medicine made of chaulmoogra (Hydnocarpus wightianus) and started treating leprosy patients with this drug.[1] The place soon developed into a treatment and rehabilitation centre from where patients cured of the disease will be assisted in reintegration into the mainstream society. He served the Health Home till his death after which the centre was taken over by Hind Kustha Nibarini Sangha (HKNS), and was brought under the jurisdiction of the Government of Odisha.[2]"
"Isaac Santra was married to Rajkumari Das[10] and the couple had a son, Dilip Kumar Santra who is also a medical doctor.[1] He died on 29 August 1968, aged 76, succumbing to the injuries sustained during a domestic accident at his home in Sambalpur.[1]"
Awards and recognitions
"The British Government conferred the title of Rai Saheb on Santra in 1938.[1] The Government of India recognized his services to the society by awarding him the fourth highest Indian civilian honour of Padma Shri in 1956.[4] The village of Sambalpur is home to a social institute, Isaac Santra Institute of Social Work and Community Health, named after him.[3][11] Smile Foundation India, a non governmental organization, has named one of its children's home as Dr. Isaac Santra Balniketan.[12]"
Isaac Santra
Campaign for Vice President
"Cox and Roosevelt in Ohio, 1920."
Governor of New York (1929–32)
"First term, 1933–37"
"Outgoing president Herbert Hoover and Roosevelt on Inauguration Day, 1933."
"Franklin Delano Roosevelt (/ˈroʊzəvəlt/, his own pronunciation,[2] or /ˈroʊzəvɛlt/; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945), commonly known as FDR, was an American statesman and political leader who served as the 32nd President of the United States, from 1933 to 1945. A Democrat, he won a record four presidential elections and dominated his party after 1932 as a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war. His program for relief, recovery and reform, known as the New Deal, involved a great expansion of the role of the federal government in the economy. As a dominant leader of the Democratic Party, he built the New Deal Coalition that brought together and united labor unions, big city machines, white ethnics, African Americans, and rural white Southerners in support of the party. The Coalition significantly realigned American politics after 1932, creating the Fifth Party System and defining American liberalism throughout the middle third of the 20th century."
"A young, unbreeched Roosevelt in 1884, 2 years old.[lower-alpha 2]"
Early political career
State senator and Tammany antagonist
The road leading to Shiva temple
"Budharaja is a small phallic shaped hillock in Sambalpur, Odisha, India. There is a Shiva temple situated on the top.[1] A concrete road goes to the temple from the base. The locality on the eastern side of the hillock is known as Budharaja due to its proximity to the hillock.[2]"
Budharaja
"Satyananda Stokes (16 August 1882 - 14 May 1946) was an American who settled in India and participated in the Indian Independence Movement.[1] He is best remembered today for having introduced apple cultivation to the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh, where apples are today the major horticultural export crop."
"Satyananda was born Samuel Evans Stokes, Jr., in an American Quaker family. His father, a very successful businessman, was the founder of the Stokes and Parish Machine Company which was a leading manufacturer of elevators in the USA. The Young Samuel did not acquire any professional skill as he was not interested in business. Nevertheless, his father made many efforts to involve him in running the business but Samuel was not interested as he believed in doing greater good in life. Since the family was wealthy, they provided for his needs."
"In 1904, aged 22, Samuel came to India to work at a leper colony located at Subathu in the Shimla. His parents were opposed to this move, but he did it anyway because it was a job where he felt happy and satisfied. India was also far away from his parents and other people who looked down on him for not taking over his family business with eagerness. The lepers needed him and adored him and the other local people treated him with great respect because he was a foreign man doing a pious job. Once his parents realized that this job fulfilled some deep emotional need of their son, they supplied him with considerable money, which he used both for the leper colony and for helping local villagers in small ways, all of which further enhanced his respectability. Raised a Quaker, Samuel was drawn to the asceticism that is exalted in Indian spirituality and began living a simple, frugal life among the villagers, becoming a sort of Christian Sannyasi."
"In 1912, Samuel married a local Rajput girl, gave up his life of poverty, purchased a chunk of farmland near his wife's village and settled there. His wife, Agnes, was the daughter of a first generation Rajput Christian.[2] Samuel's father had settled a considerable fortune upon Samuel, and the purchasing power of this inheritance was magnified manifold in the remote, beautiful part of India where he settled. He had also by now dealt with the demons of failure that had plagued his growing years, and as a white man in an uncritical rural society, in the company of an Indian wife who was non-judgmental and made few demands on his, Samuel was happier than he had ever been before. The family grew with the birth of five children."
"This happy idyll was shattered with the loss of his son Tara to amoebic dysentery. He moved closer to Hinduism and a few years later in 1932 he converted to Hinduism, taking the name ""Satyananda"" while his wife Agnes changed her name to ""Priyadevi"".[3][4] Stokes' decision to convert to Hinduism was painful for his wife Agnes because it would cut her off from those she loved but she was prepared to follow the rest of the family through the painful readjustment.[5]"
Works
"The failure of European civilisation as a world culture. (as Samuel Evans Stokes). Pub. S. Ganesan & Co., 1921 National self-realisation and other essays. (as Samuel Evans Stokes) Rubicon Pub. House. 1977 Satyakama : Man Of True Desire. Indian Publishers Distributors, 1998. ISBN 81-7341-070-4. Arjun - The Life-Story of an Indian Boy. BiblioBazaar, LLC, 2009. ISBN 1-115-47127-9. (org. 1911)"
"The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna. The organization is financed by assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states. Its objectives include maintaining international peace and security, promoting human rights, fostering social and economic development, protecting the environment, and providing humanitarian aid in cases of famine, natural disaster, and armed conflict."
"1943 sketch by Franklin Roosevelt of the United Nations' original three branches: The Four Policemen, an executive branch, and an international assembly of forty UN member states."
"The UN in 1945. In light blue, the founding members. In dark blue, protectorates and territories of the founding members."
Cold War era
Dag Hammarskjöld was a particularly active Secretary-General from 1953 until his death in 1961.
Post-Cold War
"Kofi Annan, Secretary-General from 1997 to 2006"
This article lists monuments and sites of historic importance in Odisha.
Prehistoric
The Chaturshringi Temple also spelt as Chaturshrungi Temple is a Hindu temple in the city of Pune in Maharashtra state of India.[1] The temple is located on the slope of a hill on Senapati Bapat Road. It is said to have been built during the reign of the Maratha king Shivaji. The temple is looked after by Chaturshringi Devasthan (Temple) trustees.
Chaturshringi (Chatur means four) is a mountain with four peaks. The Chaturshringi temple is 90 feet high and 125 feet wide and is a symbol of power and faith. One has to climb more than 100 steps to reach the shrine of Goddess Chaturshringi. In the temple premises there are also temples of Goddess Durga and Lord Ganesh. This includes eight miniature idols of Ashtavinayaka. These small temples are located on the four separate hillocks.Also includes the temple of vetal maharaj at the baner pashan end.
"The legend associated with the temple is that, once there was a rich and prosperous merchant named Durlabhsheth Pitambardas Mahajan who was an ardent believer of Goddess Saptashrungi devi and visited all Her temples everywhere. But as he grew older, he could no longer travel and this hindered him from visiting the temples. Then one night the Goddess Saptashrungi devi appeared in his dream and told him, ""if you can not come to me, I will come to you & stay near you."" She told him to come to a mountain situated in the North-West of Pune & dig there. The place as described by the goddess was traced out and miracle happened as he found a natural statue of goddess (swayambhu devi). He constructed the temple at that place and this is the same temple which was renovated time to time, which is the present temple."
Deity
"The presiding deity of the temple is Goddess Chaturshringi, also known as Goddess Ambareshwari. She is also considered as the presiding deity of the city of Pune. The temple is maintained by the Chaturshringi Devasthan Trust. Every year a fair is held at the foothills on the eve of Navratri. Thousands of people gather to worship the Goddess Chaturshringi."
See also
References
"Chaturshringi Devasthan, Pune"
Chaturshringi Temple
Patnaik/pattnaik/pattanayak is an Indian Karana caste surname. They basically belong to the state of Odisha.Notable people with the surname include:
"Ananga Kumar Patnaik (born 1949), Indian jurist, currently serving on the Supreme Court of India Biju Patnaik (1916–1997), Indian politician D. B. M. Patnaik (1925–2009), Indian lawyer, politician and communist leader Arup Patnaik (born 1955), Former Police Commissioner of Mumbai, first and only Odia IPS officer to hold the post. Devraj Patnaik (born 1975), Canadian-born composer, musician and choreographer Donkada Patnaik (1925–2009), Indian solicitor and politician Devdutt Pattanaik (born 1970), Indian mythologist, writer and columnist Ellora Patnaik (born 1968), Canadian-born actress and Odissi dancer Hara Patnaik (1958–2015), Oriya actor, film director and screenwriter Ila Patnaik, Indian economist and a financial journalist Jagabandhu Patnaik, dewan of Raja Arjun Singh of Porahat Janaki Ballabh Patnaik (1927-2015), was leader of the Indian National Congress and former chief minister of Orissa Naveen Patnaik (born 1946), the Chief Minister of Orissa, India Prabhat Patnaik (born 1945), Indian economist and political commentator R. P. Patnaik, Indian film music director Raghunath Patnaik, veteran leader of the Indian National Congress Sudarshan Patnaik (born 1977), inventor of sand art in India"
Patnaik
"Graham Stuart Staines (1941 – 23 January 1999) was an Australian Christian missionary who, along with his two sons Philip (aged 10) and Timothy (aged 6), was burnt to death by a gang while sleeping in his station wagon at Manoharpur village in Keonjhar district in Odisha, India on 23 January 1999. In 2003, a Bajrang Dal activist, Dara Singh, was convicted of leading the gang that murdered Graham Staines and his sons, and was sentenced to life in prison.[1]"
"He had been working in Odisha among the tribal poor and lepers since 1965. Some Hindu groups alleged that Staines had forcibly converted or lured many Hindus into Christianity; Staines' widow Gladys denied these allegations.[2][3] She continued to live in India caring for leprosy patients until she returned to Australia in 2004. In 2005 she was awarded the fourth highest civilian honor in India, Padma Shree, in recognition for her work with leprosy patients in Odisha.[4][5] In 2016, she received the Mother Teresa Memorial International Award for Social Justice.[6]"
Early life and early career
"Staines was born in 1941 at Palmwoods, Queensland. He visited India in 1965 for the first time and joined Evangelical Missionary Society of Mayurbhanj (EMSM), working in this remote tribal area, with a long history of missionary activity. He took over the management of the Mission at Baripada in 1983. He helped establish the Mayurbhanj Leprosy Home as a registered society in 1982.[7]"
Personal life
"He met Gladys June in 1981 while working for leprosy patients, and they married in 1983, and had worked together since then. They had three children, a daughter (Esther) and two sons (Philip and Timothy). Staines assisted in translating a part of the Bible into the Ho language of India, including proofreading the entire New Testament manuscript, though his focus was on a ministry to lepers. He reportedly spoke fluent Odia and was popular among the patients whom he used to help after they were cured. He used to teach how to make mats out of rope and basket from Saboigrass and trees leaves. [citation needed]"
Death and reaction
"In her affidavit before the Commission on the death of her husband and two sons, Gladys Staines stated:[13]"
Graham Staines
List of SC present in the Kosal region other than the list above :-
List of ST present in the Kosal region other than the list above :-
Songs and dances
Art and culture
Folk musical instruments
Indoor games of Kosal
Rangabati
The Sambalpuri saree
"Chhaka is an indoor game popular among women of the Kosal-Sambalpuri region. It is played with 6 pieces of large-sized shell (Couri) and 16 pieces of multi-coloured wooden dots. The game is traditional enough that a complete set of ""Couris’ and dots is taken by new brides to their husbands' houses after marriage. Ganjapa is probably named after its inventor Gajapada.[18] It is played with circular shaped cards one and one-half inches in diameter. The pack consists 144 cards, divided into 12 suits of 12 cards each, six of the suits belong to Ram’s division and other six suits, to Ravana’s division. Thus, the game centers around the epic battle between Ram and Ravana. The village Champamal in the Sonepur district is famous for its traditional manufacture of beautiful Ganjapa cards."
Traditional costumes of Sambalpuri women
""
Notable persons of Western Odisha
Tourist places of Western Odisha
Bargarh
Phurlijharan Waterfall
Jakham
Permunji
Indiravati Dam
"Western Odisha((odia:ପଶ୍ଚିମ ଓଡ଼ିଶା))is a territory in western part of Odisha, India, extending from the Kalahandi district in the south to the Sundargarh district in the northwest. Western Odisha includes the districts of Balangir, Bargarh, Boudh, Deogarh, Jharsuguda, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Sundargarh, and Athmallik Sub-division of Angul District. Many residence refer to Western Odisha as Kosal region as well.[1]"
"Prior to the 5th century, Dakshin Kosal was one of the several names by which this region was known. It is a vast geographical area, exhibiting a great degree of cultural uniformity in terms of demography and life-style."
"This geographical area is also recognised by state government of Odisha as the area under Western Odisha Development Council (WODC).[2] The Sonepur, Balangir, Nuapada, and Kalahandi districts of this region are also part of the Kalahandi Balangir Koraput or ""KBK"" area, noted for its high death rate from starvation and poverty. The book Cultural Profile of South Kosal depicts the rich history and culture of Kosalanchal."
2 February is observed as the Western Odisha day.[3]
"In the epic Ramayana, Western Odisha or Kosal region is described as a part of ""Dandakaranya"". During the period of conquest of Kalinga by emperor Ashoka, this area was known as Attabika, i.e. a region inhabited by people of forests and mountains.[4] This region was part of Dakhin Kosal in ancient times."
Som Dynasty
"Many small kingdoms, ruled by local chieftains, existed in ancient times, in what is now called Western Odisha. Tibardeb of the Som dynasty, whose capital was at Sripur, in Chhattisgarh was the first ruler, who defeated all these chieftains and established a large kingdom in Dakhin Kosal comprising what is present day Chhattisgarh and Western Odisha. There upon, he used the title of ""Kosaladhipati"". He ruled in the 6th century. 'Janmejaya Mahabhab Gupta' became king in 640. He subsequently shifted his capital, first to ‘Binitpur’ (now known as Bin’ka) and then to ""Son-pur"" in Western Odisha. In the middle of the 10th century, Yayati, a king of the Som dynasty of South Kosal, whose capital was at Sonpur, acquired control of Utkal and shifted his capital to Yayatinagar in Utkal region. There upon he kept Sonpur under a prince of his clan.[5]"
Chola Dynasty
"'Yasoraj', an army commander of 'Rajendra Chola' of the South, conquered Sonpur in 1040 and ruled Western Odisha. Four rulers of this dynasty ruled until 1110."
Kalchuri Dynasty
"Jajalla Deb, a ruler of the Kalchuri dynasty of Ratanpur, defeated the ruler of Sonpur and annexed it with his kingdom in 1110. It was under the Kalchuri rulers of Ratanpur (Now in Chhattisgarh state) from 1110 to 1238.[6] Thus, South Kosal again remained as one unit. Both, eastern part of South Kosal (Western Odisha) and western part of South Kosal (Chhattisgarh) were united and ruled by the Kalchuri rulers of Ratanpur."
Ganga Dynasty
"'Anangbhim Deb' of the Ganga dynasty of Kalinga, gained control of Western Odisha region in 1238 by defeating the ruler of Ratanpur."
Chauhan Dynasty
"'Ramai Deb' of the Chauhan dynasty established his kingdom in 1320 with his capital at 'Patnagarh' in present day's Balangir Dist, and virtually ruled independently. He used the title of "" Hirakhand Nrupati""."
Maratha Rule
British Rule
Separate Kosal state movement
"Proposed ""Kosal state"" among the aspirant states of India"
Natural resources
Demographics
Population
"The national flag of Nepal (Nepali: नेपालको झण्डा) is the world's only non-quadrilateral national flag. The flag is a simplified combination of two single pennons, the vexillological word for a pennant. Its crimson red is the colour of the rhododendron, the country's national flower. Red is also the sign of victory in war.[citation needed] The blue border is the colour of peace. Until 1962, the flag's emblems, the sun and the crescent moon, had human faces. They were removed to modernize the flag."
"The flag was adopted, with the formation of a new constitutional government, on December 16, 1962. The individual pennants had been used for the preceding two centuries and the double pennant since the 19th century. The flag borrows the basic design from the original design, which has been in use for more than 2,000 years.[citation needed]"
Flag of Nepal
Statue of Afanasy Nikitin in Tver
Afanasy Nikitin (Афана́сий Ники́тин in Russian) (died 1472) was a Russian[1][2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9] merchant of Tver and one of the first Europeans (after Niccolò de' Conti) to travel to and document his visit to India. He described his trip in a narrative known as The Journey Beyond Three Seas (Khozheniye za tri morya).
The voyage
"In 1466, Nikitin left his hometown of Tver on a commercial trip to India. He travelled down the Volga River, reached Derbent, then Baku and later Persia proper by crossing the Caspian Sea. He lived in Persia for one year. In the spring of 1469, Nikitin arrived at the city of Ormus and then, crossing the Arabian Sea, reached the sultanate of Bahmani, where he would live for 3 years. On his way back, Nikitin visited Muscat, the Arabian sultanate of Fartak, Somalia and Trabzon, and in 1472 arrived at Feodosiya by crossing the Black Sea. On his way to Tver, Nikitin died not far from Smolensk in the autumn of that year."
"During his trip, Nikitin studied the population of India, its social system, government, military (he witnessed war-games featuring war elephants), its economy, religion, lifestyles, and natural resources. The abundance and trustworthiness of Nikitin's factual material provide a valuable source of information about India at that time."
Nikitin in modern memory
"In 1955, the local authorities of Tver erected a bronze monument to Afanasy Nikitin on the bank of the Volga River. The sculptor was Sergei Orlov. There is a folk legend, that this statue was raised because Nikita Khrushchev upon visiting India, told Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru that there was a statue of Nikitin in Russia when in fact there was not (Nehru had asked if the Russians had honored the first Russian to visit India). So as not to be proven a liar, Khrushchev phoned back to Russia demanding that a statue of Nikitin be built immediately, before Nehru's state visit to Russia. The statue was featured on a Russian postage stamp in 2005 commemorating the 75th Anniversary of the establishment of the Tver region (oblast).[12] Nikitin was also featured on a coin commemorating the 525th anniversary of his journey."
Afanasy Nikitin
"Ananda Bazar Patrika (Bengali: আনন্দবাজার পত্রিকা; Bengali: [anɔnd̪ɔbadʒar Pɔt̪rika]) is an Indian Bengali language daily newspaper published in Kolkata, New Delhi, Mumbai and Silchar by the ABP Group. According to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, it has a circulation of 1.1 million copies as of Jul-Dec 2015.[1] Presently, the newspaper is edited by Anirban Chattopadhyay after Aveek Sarkar resigned. Its main competitors are Bartaman, Sangbad Pratidin, Ei Samay."
"A Bengali newspaper was published in 1876 in a small village of Magura at Jessore in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) by Tusharkanti Ghose and his father Sisir Kumar Ghose. They named it ""Ananda Bazar"" after the name of Tusharkanti's grand mother's sister Anandamoyee. But soon the newspaper was died. In 1886, Ghose published another newspaper after the name of his grandmother Amritamoyee and named it Amrita Bazar Patrika.[2]"
"Later in 1922 the newspaper Anandabazar Patrika was relaunched by editor Prafulla Kumar Sarkar and proprietor, Suresh Chandra Majumdar. It was first printed on 13 March 1922 under their ownership and was against British rule.[3] In 1922 it first published as a four/page evening daily. The first colour printing (the features section). News comes to a standstill as ABP faces a 51-day strike. The internet edition of the newspaper was launched in the year 2001.[4] In 2010, Time Inc. entered into a license agreement with ABP Group, one of India’s largest media conglomerate to publish Fortune India magazine.This magazine is publishing the famous Fortune India 500 list every year.[5] ABP Group launches Ebela, a Bengali tabloid."
Anandabazar Patrika
Narendra Deepchand Hirwani  pronunciation (help·info) (born 18 October 1968) is a leg spin bowler who played for India. He is mainly remembered for his success on his Test debut.
Early days
Hirwani came from a well-off family in Gorakhpur. His father owned a brick factory. Hirwani moved to Indore in his teenage where he stayed in a room near the ground under the guidance of the Madhya Pradesh cricketer Sanjay Jagdale.
Hirwani made his first class debut for Madhya Pradesh at the age of 16 and took five wickets on his debut. He did much better in the following seasons and took 23 wickets in an under-19 three Test series against Australia.
His big break came for India U-25 against the touring West Indians in 1987–88. He failed in the first innings but took all the six wickets to fall in the second. This got him selected to the Test team.
Success in tests
"Hirwani's debut was in the final Test of the series at Madras. The wicket was underprepared. India won an important toss and made 382. Hirwani took three of the five West Indian wickets to fall on the second day. On the third morning, Hirwani clean-bowled Vivian Richards with a googly which the batsman failed to pick, and dismissed the remaining four batsmen to finish with 8 for 61. This made him only the fourth bowler to take eight wickets in an innings on debut."
"More success followed in the home series against New Zealand the next year. The pitches afforded spin; Hirwani took 20 wickets in three Tests, and his partner Arshad Ayub 21. In his first four Tests he had taken 36 wickets, the most by any bowler at this stage of their career."
ODIs
"Hirwani won the man of the series in a three nation tournament in Sharjah a few months later, capturing 10 wickets in three matches. In the process, he became the first Indian bowler to capture 4 wickets in 3 consecutive ODIs."
Later career
"His career took a turn for the worse in the tour of West Indies in 1989–90. The batsmen deliberately attacked his bowling and even at Port of Spain, where the wicket helped spinners, he could do little."
Records
"Hirwani holds the Test record (World Record) of bowling 59 overs unchanged without a break (other than for scheduled intervals), during a test match against England at The Oval in 1990.[1]"
"Kirtivardhan Bhagwat Jha Azad  pronunciation (help·info) (born 2 January 1959, Purnea, Bihar) is a former Indian cricketer and politician who played in 7 Tests and 25 ODIs from 1980 to 1986."
"Azad is the son of former Chief Minister of Bihar Bhagwat Jha Azad. He was an aggressive right-hand batsman and a quickish offspinner. A surprise choice for the tour of Australia and New Zealand in 1980-81, he made his Test debut at Wellington. The highlight of his career was being part of the Indian team that won the 1983 Cricket World Cup.[1]"
"He is currently serving his third term in the Lok Sabha. He won the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections from Darbhanga, Bihar."
Domestic career
"He attended Modern School in Delhi where he was part of the school cricket team. Azad, a nonconformist in many ways, was a stalwart allrounder for Delhi for years and in 95 Ranji Trophy matches he scored 4867 runs (47.72) and took 162 wickets (28.91). His highest score was 215 against Himachal Pradesh in 1985-86."
"He was a surprise choice for the tour of Australia and New Zealand in 1980-81, he made his Test debut at Wellington. He then played three Tests without much success against England in 1981-82 and was then ignored till he was picked for the World Cup in 1983. Azad had his day in the sun when he played a leading part in India winning the semi-final against England, when he helped bottle up the middle order with his fastish off-breaks and earned a bonus while bowling the dangerous Ian Botham."
"Azad also played a memorable innings against Pakistan in 1983 at New Delhi, in an exhibition day/night match. Pakistan batted first and made 197 runs for 3 wickets in 50 overs with Azad taking all 3 wickets. In India's reply, Kirti scored a rapid 71 not-out and steered India to a one-wicket victory. He hit seven sixes, including three consecutive sixes off Pakistani medium pacer Jalaluddin.[2] But he met with no success in three Tests against Pakistan and West Indies and was discarded."
"Later he followed his father Bhagwat Jha Azad, former Chief Minister of Bihar,[3] into politics and was elected to Parliament on a Bharatiya Janata Party ticket from Darbhanga, Bihar. He is currently serving his third term in the Lok Sabha. He was previously an MLA from Delhi's Gole Market constituency.[4] He won the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections from Darbhanga.[5] On 23rd December 2015 he got suspended from Bharatiya Janata Party for openly targeting Union finance minister Arun Jaitley over alleged irregularities and corruption in Delhi's cricket body Delhi and District Cricket Association.[6]"
"Azad is married to Poonam and has two sons.[7] His elder son Suryavardhan has played for Delhi Under-17s, Under-19s and Under-22s, while his younger son Somyavardhan has played for Delhi Under-15s and Delhi Under-17s.[8][9]"
Views on IPL
"Following a 2012 sting operation on players of Indian Premier League (IPL), Azad came out in opposition of the tournament and demanded that it be banned.[10] Speaking about the Indian T20 team, he reportedly alleged that the players played for self rather than the country. He further said that he felt agitated and ashamed to be associated with the BCCI in the wake of the IPL controversy."
"Salim Aziz Durani  pronunciation (help·info) (born 11 December 1934 in Kabul, Afghanistan) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 29 Tests from 1960 to 1973. An all-rounder, Durani was a slow left-arm orthodox bowler and a left-handed batsman famous for his six-hitting prowess. He is the only Test cricketer to have been born in Afghanistan.[1]"
He appeared in the film Charitra with Parveen Babi in 1973.[3] He was the first cricketer to win an Arjuna Award. He was recently awarded the C.K. Nayudu Lifetime Achievement Award by the BCCI in 2011.[4]
"December 2005. At his home ground, the WACA, Gilchrist faces Makhaya Ntini, in the First Test, Australia v South Africa."
Gilchrist with Australia in 2006
Gilchrist batting at the MCG vs India on 2007-12-27 (video 0:16)
Indian Premier League
"Gilchrist was contracted by the Hyderabad-based Deccan Chargers in the inaugural season's player auction for US$700,000. In Deccan's fourth match of the inaugural 2008 season, Gilchrist hammered the second fastest hundred in the IPL, off just 42 balls, as Deccan recorded their first win, against Mumbai. Gilchrist led the Deccan Chargers in the second half of the IPL in the absence of regular captain VVS Laxman, who was ruled out for the rest of the tournament due to injury. Deccan came last, winning only two of 14 matches."
Gilchrist standing up to Shane Warne in 2005. Andrew Strauss is the batsman.
Walking and discipline
"Cricket has for many years debated whether batsmen should ""walk"", that is to agree that they have been dismissed and leave the field of play without waiting for (or contrary to) an umpire's decision. Gilchrist reignited this debate by walking during a high-profile match, the 2003 World Cup semi-final against Sri Lanka, after the umpire ruled him to be not out.[186] He has since proclaimed himself to be ""a walker"", or a batsman who will consistently walk,[187] and has done so on numerous occasions.[186][188] On one occasion against Bangladesh, Gilchrist walked but TV replays failed to suggest any contact between his bat and the ball. Without such contact, he could not have been caught out.[188]"
"Charity, media, business career and political work"
Adam Gilchrist speaking at the 2013 National Flag Raising and Citizenship ceremony in Canberra
"Outside cricket, Gilchrist is an ambassador for the charity World Vision in India, a country in which he is popular due to his cricketing achievements,[202] and sponsors a boy whose father has died.[203] He was approached in early 2005 by the US baseball franchise, the Boston Red Sox, with a view to him playing for them when his cricket career ended.[204] However, he was selected for the 2007 Cricket World Cup and announced his retirement from Test and One-Day cricket in early 2008.[205]"
"Adam Craig Gilchrist, AM[2] (/ˈɡɪlkrɪst/; born 14 November 1971), nicknamed ""Gilly"" or ""Churchy"",[3] is a former Australian cricketer and one of the most explosive batsmen in world cricket. He was the captain of Australia, and Middlesex.[1] He is an attacking left-handed batsman and record-breaking wicket-keeper, who redefined the role for the Australia national cricket team through his aggressive batting. He is widely regarded as the greatest wicket-keeper–batsman in the history of the game.[4][5] He held the world record for the most dismissals by a wicket-keeper in One Day International (ODI) cricket until it was surpassed by Kumar Sangakkara in 2015 and the most by an Australian in Test cricket.[6][7] His strike rate is amongst the highest in the history of both ODI and Test cricket; his century against England at Perth in December 2006 is the fourth-fastest century in all Test cricket.[8] He is the first player to have hit 100 sixes in Test cricket.[9][10] His 17 Test and 16 ODI centuries are the second most by a wicket-keeper, only after Kumar Sangakkara.[11][12] He holds the unique record of scoring at least 50 runs in successive World Cup finals (in 1999, 2003 and 2007). His swashbuckling 149 off 104 balls against Sri Lanka in the 2007 World Cup final is rated one of the greatest World Cup innings of all time.[13][14] He is one of only three players to have won three titles.[15] Adam Gilchrist is also the first player to reach 1000 runs in the Indian Premier League. Gilchrist is renowned for walking when he considers himself to be out, sometimes contrary to the decision of the umpire.[16][17] He made his first-class debut in 1992, his first One-Day International appearance in 1996 in India and his Test debut in 1999.[1] During his career, he played for Australia in 96 Test matches and over 270 One-day internationals. He was Australia's vice-captain in both forms of the game, captaining the team when regular captains Steve Waugh and Ricky Ponting were unavailable.[18][19] He retired from international cricket in March 2008."
Adam Gilchrist's record as captain   Matches Won Lost Drawn Tied No result Win % Test [48] 6 4 1 1 0 – 66.67% ODI [49] 17 12 4 0 0 1 70.59% Twenty20 [50] 2 1 1 0 0 – 50% Date last Updated: 2 September 2015
Celebrating a century against the World XI in the second ICC Super Series match at Telstra Dome (7 October 2005).
Irfan Pathan taking his run-up in an ODI against Australia in 2012
Cricket Academy Of Pathans
Statistics
"Irfan Khan Pathan ( pronunciation (help·info); born 27 October 1984) is an Indian cricketer who made his debut for India in the 2003/04 Border-Gavaskar Trophy, and was a core member of the national team until a decline in form set in during 2006, forcing him out of the team. Since then, he has been in and out of the limited-overs teams (ODIs and T20Is), and has only sporadic appearances in Test cricket. Pathan played his last Test in April, 2008 at the age of 24.[1]"
"Beginning his career as a fast-medium swing and seam bowler, Pathan broke into the national team soon after turning 19, and evoked comparisons with Pakistan's Wasim Akram with his promising performances and prodigious swing. He cemented his position in the team and was named by the International Cricket Council as the 2004 Emerging Player of the Year. Pathan was instrumental in India's One-day international and Test series wins in Pakistan in 2004. He was described by the media as the ""blue-eyed boy"" of the Indian cricket.[2] In late-2004 he took 18 wickets in two Tests against Bangladesh, but the start of 2005 he performed poorly and conceded runs at a high rate, leading to a brief exile from the one-day international (ODI) team."
"In early 2006, Pathan became the only bowler to take a Test hat-trick in the first over of the match (vs Pakistan at Karachi). However, the productive run did not last and after the start of 2006, Pathan began to steadily lose pace and swing, and his wicket-taking dwindled. Although Pathan's batting continued to be productive, he was not regarded as a specialist and was dropped from the team in both Tests and ODIs by the end of 2006, and by 2007 was no longer in the squad."
Irfan Pathan was born in the western Indian city of Vadodara (former Baroda)
"Pathan made his Test debut in December 2003, following an injury to the Baroda left-armer Zaheer Khan"
Irfan Pathan
Pathan bowling in the nets.
Malgudi Days is a collection of short stories by R.K. Narayan published in 1943 by Indian Thought Publications.
"In 1986, a few of the stories in the book were included in the Malgudi Days television series and directed by actor and director, Shankar Nag."
"In 2014, Google commemorated Narayan's 108th birthday by featuring a Google Doodle showing him behind a copy of Malgudi Days.[6]"
Malgudi Days (book)
"Jitendra Haripal (or Jitendria Haripal), a singer, is most popularly known for his voice in the famous and super hit Rangabati Song in Kosli language of Odisha. He sang this duet song with his female co-singer Krishna Patel. He has sung over 1000 songs and regarded as a top exponent of Kosli language (or Sambalpuri) song . He has shared the stage with other leading artists of the State including the former Chief Minister Giridhar Gamang, himself a fine musician.[1]"
"Haripal is from the Dalit community also known as Ganda caste in western orissa. He dropped out of school and never taken formal training for songs. He has borrowed this skill from his father Mandhata Haripal, who was a talented musician himself. Being a dalit he was not allowed to attend the music sabhas. Neither he could afford a teacher. He used to stand outside the sabhas and other performances and listen. He even used to stand in rain and listen the songs from outside. His family was landless. They have the only property as singing. In an interview to The Hindu he says, ""I know the raagas but not their titles, It is only when people tell me that the song you have sung is in this or that raaga that I get to know the names"".[1]"
Professional life
"According to him, ""Music is not safe source of earning"". Hence he has worked as a construction labourer and did other odd jobs some time."
"He started his career as a singer in All India Radio (AIR) in 1971 and worked as a ""Senior B High"" grade as an artist. In the 70s he became popular because of Rangabati Song. After being a hit number on AIR, in 1976 the song got recorded again in Kolkata by a music company, INDRECO. A dispute over authorship of the tune stopped the release of the disc. Finally he won in the legal battle in courts and the disc was released in 1978–79."
"After this another bad thing happened. Due to huge popularity of the song, the cassette company signed him for 3 years, with the option of a two-year extension. Thereafter the company went into a lockout, then closed and ownership transferred. Due to contract, he could not perform for anybody else and his royalties stopped. He got only around Rs. 10,000."
Interesting Incident
"A crowd recognised him at Batapur railway station. It refused to let the train move until Haripal sang Rangabati Song. Finally, the train driver asked him to sing a few lines so that the train can move!""[1]"
His youngest son Prabhat is a well-known percussionist and his daughter-in-law Minu is a popular singer. His granddaughter Ghungroo loves folk dances. His eldest son Paras died in an accident.[1]
"Even after being in lime light, in 2001, his family was not in good financial condition. Their family troupe used to make little money. They lost all their instruments in heavy rain and used to hire or borrow.[2]"
Contribution for upliftment of Sambalpuri folk music
"In April 2015, Haripal submitted a petition to secretary, tourism and culture, Aurobinda Padhi seeking his intervention to ensure that folk songs retain their original glory. He does not like the obscene and vulgar lyrics in Sambalpuri folk songs now-a-days and wants to censor the video albums.[3]"
Awards and felicitations
"Jitendra Haripal and Krishna Patel were conferred with DLitt (Honoris Causa) at the fourth convocation of Utkal University of Culture in Bhubaneswar on 10 April 2015.[3] In 2007, he was felicitated by Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.[4] In 2012, He was the brand ambassador for Western Samurai, Rourkela T-20 team for the Odisha Premier League.[1]"
References
Ghanteswari Temple
"Maa Ghanteshwari temple is a temple in the vicinity of Sambalpur city in Orissa, India. As the name suggests there are bells everywhere.[1] People offer bells to goddess Ghanteswari or the Deity of Bells, after fulfillment of their wishes. A large number of pilgrims from across the state visit the temple. It is known as the 'lighthouse without light', built by the early sailors, for whom the bells served as warning against heavy winds. The special significance of this place lies in the great number of small bells hanging all around."
Maa Ghanteshwari Temple is situated 33 kilometres (21 mi) southwest of the district capital Sambalpur on the bank of Mahanadi River. The Chipilima Hydro Powerplant (CHEP) is located near the temple on the same river bank.
Natural Scenery near Ghanteswari
Ghanteswari Temple
Software Freedom Day logo
"Software Freedom Day (SFD) is an annual worldwide celebration of Free Software. SFD is a public education effort with the aim of increasing awareness of Free Software and its virtues, and encouraging its use."
"Software Freedom Day was established in 2004 and was first observed on 28 August of that year. About 12 teams participated in the first Software Freedom Day. Since that time it has grown in popularity and while organisers anticipated more than 1,000 teams in 2010[1] the event has stalled at around 400+ locations over the past two years, representing a 30% decrease over 2009."
"Since 2006 Software Freedom Day has been held on the third Saturday of September, it has occasionally coincided with International Talk Like a Pirate Day."
SFD Events
Time Teams Countries Source 28 August 2004 12 N/A linux.com 10 September 2005 136 60 linux.com SFD 2005 map 16 September 2006 180 70 SFD 2006 map 15 September 2007 286 80 SFD 2007 map 20 September 2008 563 90 SFD 2008 map 19 September 2009 700 90 SFD 2009 map 18 September 2010 397 90 SFD 2010 map 17 September 2011 442 87 SFD 2011 map 15 September 2012 301 73 SFD 2012 map 21 September 2013 316 81 SFD 2013 map 20 September 2014 197 59 SFD 2014 map 19 September 2015 141 47 SFD 2015 map
Other Freedom Days
The Digital Freedom Foundation also organizes other Freedom Day events:
"Outline of free software Culture Freedom Day Document Freedom Day Hardware Freedom Day International Day Against DRM, promoted by the Free Software Foundation in its ""Defective by Design"" campaign."
"India made its Summer Paralympic début at the 1968 Games, competed again in 1972, and then was absent until the 1984 Games. The country has participated in every edition of the Summer Games since then. It has never participated in the Winter Paralympic Games.[1]"
"In 1972 at the Heidelberg Games, Murlikant Petkar swam the 50 meter freestyle in a world record time of 37.331 seconds to give India her first ever Gold. India finished 24th out of the 42 participating nations. In 1984, Joginder Singh Bedi won silver at the Men's Shot Put and followed it up with a pair of bronze winning performances in the Discus and Javelin throws. Another Indian, Bhimrao Kesarkar, won the silver medal in the Javelin. India finished 37th out of the 54 participating nations.[2]"
"After the success of the cooperative effort between the IPC and the IOC, which resulted in the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, the IPC determined the need to expand and include representatives from all nations that had disability sports programs. The 1988 Summer Paralympics were the first Paralympics in 24 years that took place in the same city as the Olympic Games. This was the first time the term Paralympic Games came into official use.They also deemed it necessary to include athletes in the decisions of the Paralympic governing body. Consequently, this body was reorganized as the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) in 1989.The IPC is the global governing body of the Paralympic Movement. It comprises 165 National Paralympic Committees (NPC) and four disability-specific international sports federations."
India at the Paralympics
"Khurda (Sl. No.: 117) is a Vidhan Sabha constituency of Khordha district, Odisha, India.[2]"
"This constituency includes Khordha, Khurda block and 8 Gram panchayats (Palatotapada, Bajapur, Nijigarhtapanga, Kanpur, Dhaulimuhan, Brajamohanpur, Naranagarh, Godipada, Jankia, Golabaisasan, Orabarasingh, Kuradhamalla, Bangida and Kaipadar) of Khurda block.[3][4]"
Elected Members
2014 Election Result
"In 2014 election, Biju Janata Dal candidate Rajendra Kumar Sahoo defeated Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Jyotirindra Nath Mitra by a margin of 6,597 votes. [9]"
2009 Election Result
"In 2009 election, Independent candidate Rajendra Kumar Sahoo defeated Independent candidate Jyotirindra Nath Mitra by a margin of 3,235 votes.[12]"
Khurda (Odisha Vidhan Sabha constituency)
A palm leaf manuscript in Nandinagari script.
Palm leaf manuscripts of 16th century in Odia script.
"A palm leaf Hindu text manuscript from Bali, Indonesia, showing how the manuscripts were tied into a book."
"Palm-leaf manuscripts are manuscripts made out of dried palm leaves. Palm leaves were used as writing materials in South Asia and in Southeast Asia dating back to the 5th century BCE,[1] and possibly much earlier.[2] Their use began in South Asia, and spread elsewhere, as texts on dried and smoke treated palm leaves of Borassus species (Palmyra palm) or the ola leaf (leaf of the Corypha umbraculifera or Talipot palm).[2]"
"One of the oldest surviving palm leaf manuscript is a Sanskrit Shaivism text from the 9th-century, discovered in Nepal, now preserved at the Cambridge University Library.[3]"
"Palm leaf manuscripts were written in ink on rectangular cut and cured palm leaf sheet. Each sheet typically had a hole through which a string could pass through, and with these the sheets were tied together with a string to bind like a book. A palm leaf text thus created had a limited time (between few decades to ~600 years) and the document had to be copied onto new sets of dried palm leaves as the document decayed due to dampness, insect activity, mold and fragility.[2]"
Electoral college results
"The election of President and Vice President of the United States is an indirect election in which citizens of the United States who are registered to vote in one of the fifty states or Washington, D.C. cast ballots for a set of members of the U.S. Electoral College, known as electors. These electors then in turn cast direct votes, known as electoral votes, for President and Vice President of the United States. The candidate who receives an absolute majority of electoral votes for President or Vice President is then elected to that office. If no candidate receives an absolute majority for President, the House of Representatives chooses the President; if no candidate receives a majority for Vice President, then the Senate chooses the Vice President. The Electoral College and its procedure is established in the U.S. Constitution by Article II, Section 1, Clauses 2 and 4; and the Twelfth Amendment (which replaced Clause 3 after it was ratified in 1804)."
"These presidential elections occur quadrennially, with registered voters casting their ballots on Election Day, which since 1845 has been the Tuesday after the first Monday in November,[1][2][3] coinciding with the general elections of various other federal, state, and local races. The next U.S. presidential election, the 58th quadrennial U.S. Presidential Election[4] is scheduled for November 8, 2016."
Procedure
Eligibility requirements
The hand-written copy of the natural-born-citizen clause as it appeared in 1787
"Article Two of the United States Constitution stipulates that for a person to serve as President, the individual must be a natural-born citizen of the United States, at least 35 years old, and a resident of the United States for a period of no less than 14 years. A candidate may start running his or her campaign early before turning 35 years old or completing 14 years of residency, but must meet the age and residency requirements by Inauguration Day. The Twenty-second Amendment to the Constitution also sets a term limit: a President cannot be elected to more than two terms."
"In addition, the Twelfth Amendment establishes that the Vice-President must meet all of the qualifications of being a President."
"A 2008 Democratic caucus meeting in Iowa City, Iowa. The Iowa caucuses are traditionally the first major electoral event of presidential primaries and caucuses."
"Madison Square Garden in New York City, the site of the 1976, 1980, and 1992 Democratic National Conventions; and the 2004 Republican National Convention."
"The floor of the 2008 Republican National Convention at the Xcel Energy Center in Saint Paul, Minnesota."
The popular vote on Election Day
"A Texas voter about to mark a selection for president on a ballot, 2008 Election Day"
Electoral college
"Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential election. Incumbent Democrat president Barack Obama won the popular vote in 26 states and Washington, D.C. (denoted in blue) to capture 332 electoral votes. Republican challenger Mitt Romney won the popular vote in 24 states (denoted in red) to capture 206 electoral votes."
A digital object identifier (DOI) is a type of persistent identifier used to uniquely identify objects. The DOI system is particularly used for electronic documents such as journal articles. The DOI system began in 2000 and is managed by the International DOI Foundation.[1]
"DOI means ""digital identifier of an object"" rather than ""identifier of a digital object"".[2] Thus DOI stands for ""digital object-identifier"" rather than ""digital-object identifier""."
"Metadata about the object is stored in association with the DOI name. It may include a location, such as a URL, indicating where the object can be found. The DOI for a document remains fixed over the lifetime of the document, whereas its location and other metadata may change. Referring to an online document by its DOI provides more stable linking than simply using its URL, because if its URL changes, the publisher only needs to update the metadata for the DOI to link to the new URL.[3][4][5]"
"A DOI name differs from standard identifier registries such as the ISBN and ISRC. The purpose of an identifier registry is to manage a given collection of identifiers, whereas the primary purpose of the DOI system is to make a collection of identifiers actionable and interoperable."
"Organizations that meet the contractual obligations of the DOI system and are willing to pay to become a member of the system can assign DOIs.[6] The DOI system is implemented through a federation of registration agencies coordinated by the International DOI Foundation,[7] which developed and controls the system. The DOI system has been developed and implemented in a range of publishing applications since 2000; by late April 2011 more than 50 million DOI names had been assigned by some 4,000 organizations.[8] By April 2013 this number had grown to 85 million DOI names assigned through 9,500 organizations. The DOI system uses, but is not formally part of, the Handle System.[9]"
Applications
Major applications of the DOI system currently include:
"scholarly materials (journal articles, books, ebooks, etc.) through CrossRef, a consortium of around 3,000 publishers; research datasets through DataCite, a consortium of leading research libraries, technical information providers, and scientific data centers; European Union official publications through the EU publications office; Permanent global identifiers for commercial video content through the Entertainment ID Registry, commonly known as EIDR."
"Ian Michael Chappell (born 26 September 1943) is a former cricketer who played for South Australia and Australia. He captained Australia between 1971 and 1975 before taking a central role in the breakaway World Series Cricket organisation. Born into a cricketing family—his grandfather and brother also captained Australia—Chappell made a hesitant start to international cricket playing as a right-hand middle-order batsman and spin bowler. He found his niche when promoted to bat at number three. Known as ""Chappelli"", he earned a reputation as one of the greatest captains the game has seen.[1][2][3][4] Chappell's blunt verbal manner led to a series of confrontations with opposition players and cricket administrators; the issue of sledging first arose during his tenure as captain and he was a driving force behind the professionalisation of Australian cricket in the 1970s.[5]"
"John Arlott called him, ""a cricketer of effect rather than the graces"".[6] An animated presence at the batting crease, he constantly adjusted his equipment and clothing, and restlessly tapped his bat on the ground as the bowler ran in. Basing his game on a sound defence learned during many hours of childhood lessons, Chappell employed the drive and square cut to full effect.[5] He had an idiosyncratic method of playing back and across to a ball of full length and driving wide of mid on,[7] but his trademark shot was the hook, famously saying ""three bouncers an over should be worth 12 runs to me"".[8] A specialist slip fielder, he was the fourth player to take one hundred Test catches."
"Since his retirement in 1980, he has pursued a high-profile career as a sports journalist and cricket commentator, predominantly with Channel Nine.[4] He remains a major figure in Australian cricket: in 2006, Shane Warne called Chappell the biggest influence on his career.[9] Chappell was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1986,[4] the FICA Cricket Hall of Fame in 2000 and the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 2003.[10] On 9 July 2009, Ian Chappell was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.[11]"
Family and early career
"The first of three sons born in Adelaide to Martin and Jeanne (née Richardson), Chappell was steeped in the game from an early age. His father was a noted Adelaide grade cricketer who put a bat in his hands as soon as he could walk,[4] and his maternal grandfather was famous all-round sportsman Vic Richardson, who captained Australia at the end of a nineteen-Test career.[12] Chappell was given weekly batting lessons from the age of five, as were younger brothers Greg and Trevor, who both also went on to play for Australia.[13]"
Chappell's maternal grandfather Vic Richardson
"In 1963–64, Chappell batted at number three for SA for the first time, in a match against Queensland at Brisbane, and scored 205 not out.[20] He was the youngest member of the SA team that won the Sheffield Shield that season.[21] A century against Victoria early the following season resulted in Chappell's selection for a one-off Test against Pakistan at Melbourne in December 1964. He made 11 and took four catches,[22] but was dropped until the Fourth Test in the 1965–66 Ashes series. Chappell supplemented his aggressive batting with brilliant fielding in the slips, and he showed promise as a leg-spinner.[4] At this point, the selectors and captain Bob Simpson considered him an all-rounder: he batted at number seven and bowled 26 (eight-ball) overs for the match.[20]"
"He retained his place for the following Test and for the tour of South Africa in summer 1966–67. Playing in a side defeated 1–3, Chappell struggled to make an impression. His highest score in ten Test innings was 49, while his five wickets cost 59 runs each.[23] On the advice of Simpson, he ceased playing the hook shot as it was often leading to his dismissal.[24] In the first Test of 1967–68 against India, he failed twice batting in the middle order. Heading into the second Test at Melbourne, Chappell's place was in jeopardy, but he rode his luck to score 151 – his innings contained five chances that the Indians failed to take.[20] However, in the remainder of the series, he managed only 46 runs in four innings,[25] so his selection for the 1968 tour of England was based as much on potential as form."
Captaincy
Ian Chappell in the early 1970s
World Series Cricket and aftermath
"In 1976, Chappell toured South Africa with Richie Benaud's International Wanderers team, released his autobiography Chappelli and was named as one of five Wisden Cricketers of the Year.[66] He was hired to spend the summer of 1976–77 as a guest professional in the Melbourne district competition where he was paid more than he had been as Australian captain.[5] During the season, he was involved in a famous altercation with a young English all-rounder who was in Victoria on a cricketing scholarship, Ian Botham. Both men have put forward vastly different versions as to what happened during the physical confrontation in a Melbourne pub.[70] The animosity between them continues and Channel Nine used it as a marketing ploy when Botham temporarily partnered Chappell as a television commentator during the 1998–99 season.[71] Botham again revived the feud in his 2007 autobiography with another version of the incident.[72]"
ODI record
"Chappell's aggressive approach suited limited-overs cricket: he scored his runs at a strike-rate of 77 runs per hundred balls.[6] The timing of his career limited him to 16 ODI matches, but he appeared in a number of historic fixtures such as the first ODI (at the MCG in 1971),[83] the first World Cup final (at Lord's in 1975) and the first day/night match (during WSC, at VFL Park in 1978).[84] He passed fifty in half of his innings with a top score of 86 at Christchurch in 1973–74. In his final season of international cricket, he scored 63 not out (from 65 balls) against the West Indies at the SCG to win the player of the match award; five days later he hit an unbeaten 60 from 50 balls in his penultimate ODI appearance, against England. As captain, he recorded six wins and five losses from 11 matches. He is also credited to have hit the first ever six in an ODI match (which is in fact the first ODI match ever played)."
Captaincy statistics
"The Chappell Stands at the Adelaide Oval, opened in 2003"
"Khandayat (from Sanskrit khanda-ayata, ""master of the sword"") is a caste of Odisha in India. They constitute 22% of the population of the state. Khandayats were mainly involved in ruling and operating the body of society in ancient to medieval era.[1]"
Etymology
"The name Khandayat is originated from the term ""Khanda"" with its origin in Sanskrit which means the sword and ""ayata"", which means control in specific area. So according to the order of Shree Gajapati Maharaja, literally Khandayat means a person having complete control over rules, warfare, and discipline.[2][3][4]"
"Maurbhanj Palace, Baripada, belonged to the erstwhile royal family of Bhanj Deo"
"Fakir Mohan Senapati, born into a middle-class family at village in Balasore District, he became one of the greatest poets in Odisha's literary history. Often regarded as the father of Odia Nationalism and modern Odia literature"
"Traditionally they are martial caste or people belonging to the warrior class also known as ""Kshatriyas"". The Khandayats have a recorded history of over 2500 years, and have been noted in historical events such as the famous Kalinga War and the Paik Rebellion, where, along with the East Indian Company Khonds regiment, they fought strenuously against British Rule. The Khandayats are supposed to have ruled Orissa and several adjoining parts in 16th century with the death of last Gajapati ruler Mukunda Dev, who was killed by Govinda Vidyadhara in 1541. Govinda Vidyadhara was the founder of Bhoi (Bhoumyokar) dynasty in Orissa. Since then, the ruling families such as Singh Deo, Bhanj Deo, Singha Deb are limited to their rule in Odisha. The advent of land holding came as a central issue for Khandayats in the medieval ages, as feudalism became an important factor in the common Indian society. Hence, after each battle or war, Khandayats who had fought were given lands or ""jagirs"" according to their rank and success in the battlefield. Because of this, by the end of 19th century, most landholdings became part and parcel of people from the Khandayat community. However, with all of Odisha and India coming under East India Company rule, land was minutely distributed among people of other castes such as Brahmin and Karana, so as to not make Khandayat the only dominant force, politically, in Odisha.[2]"
"By the mid 20th century Khandayats (particularly the Zamindari class) were at a complete loss when Zamindari system was removed forcibly by the Indian Republican Constitution and government took the possession of their extra lands in Independent India. Though this action irrevocably destroyed feudalism and the land backbone for Khandayat community, however, secular education became a greater issue for the upper castes.[2] Khandayats, like Brahmins of Odisha, asserted their power of civil education by producing educators, civil officers, and astute politicians not just after Indian independence, but also prior in British era."
Present day
"Dibyasingha Deb of Puri Rajya during Rath Yatra, 2011"
"Khandayats are divided into various clans. The main four are listed as Agnivanshi, Suryavanshi, Nagavanshi and Chandravanshi. It is considered that Khandayats are one homogeneous community, however this community is divided into various class strata. But these divisions are of a social nature and has no effect on religious customs or rituals. At the first are Rajputia Khandayats, which consists of the erstwhile royal families, next is Sresth-Khandayats, who are generally people related to the royal family or people whose forefathers' actions have been of noteworthy to the kingdoms in the medieval ages, and then the normal Khandayats, who are traditionally warriors, and at peacetime, educators, agriculturalists, and distinguished leaders of towns and villages.[5] Earlier, they were concentrated in the coastal districts like Cuttack, Kendrapara, Khurda, Puri, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Nayagarh, Bhadrak, Baleswar, Dhenkanal,Sambalpur with some pockets in central Orissa. However, this has changed over the years due to increased movement of people within the state as a result of greater industrialization and focus on cities."
"Harekrushna Mahatab, from an aristocratic Khandayat family, was a prolific writer, poet, and the first chief minister of Odisha"
Customs
"They strictly adhere to North Indian Brahminical customs and rituals and used to be very caste conscious in regards to marriage. However, as social reforms are being brought about, intercaste marriage not just amongst the community but also the various communities in Odisha are taking place. Also, marriage is followed according to determination of one's Gotra/lineage and Kundali/horoscope. Common Gotras are Bhardawaj, Bachasya, Gautama, Vasistha, Kashyap, Nageshya or Ballabhadra. Common Titles and surnames include Biswal, Dhal, Nayak, Gadanayak, Indrasingh, Mishra, Swain, Pal, Bishoyi, Dalai, Patro, Jena, Samal, Baral, Nanda, Rout, Routaray, Paikaray, Singhdeo, BhanjDeo, Kanungo, Sundaray, Deo, Dhir, Mohanty, Maharathi, Singh, Sinha, Pradhan, Samantaray, Samanta, Parida, Khandayatray, Ray, Chhotray, Dalasinghray, Srichandanray, Champatiray, Choudhary, Muduli,and Mahapatra.[6]"
Paika Akhada
"Paika means fighter or warrior in Odia language. Paika Akhada is a place where the Paikas were getting their military training. During medieval times, infantry units, also called padatika (infantry), would be recruited from various communities in Odisha. These units would be trained into various military skillsets by an officer/leader given the title of Paik, who lead them to engage in various expeditions for the protection of their kingdom.[7] The Paikas were Khandayats, who had tremendous control over swords.[3][4][8]"
"Shri Hari Baladev Jiu Temple in Baripada, built under royal patronage."
Dance of the Santal people in the Mayurbhanj area.
"Mayurbhanj State, was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. It was one of the largest states of the Eastern States Agency and one of the three states of the Bengal States Agency. The emblem of the state were two peacocks for according to legend the ancestors of the ancient rulers originated from a peafowl's eyes.[1]"
"The state included a vast mountainous area inhabited by many different people groups such as the Santal and Kisan people.[2] Its former territory lies in the present-day state of Odisha, bordering West Bengal. The capital of the state was the town of Baripada since the 15th century and Daspur was another important town. Large tracts of Mayurbhanj State were covered with forest."
Early history
"According to tradition the kings of Khijjinga Mandala, the predecessor state, had ruled in unbroken succession since about the 9th century AD. The state had been named after its capital, Khijjinga Kotta, today Khiching. Copper plate inscriptions issued by the ancient rulers indicate that Khijjinga Mandala was an extensive territory comprising the present Mayurbhanj and Kendujhar districts as well as parts of Singhbhum district in Bihar and Midnapore district in West Bengal. During the Mughal period, the territory of the Bhanja rulers extended as far as the Bay of Bengal. By that time, the capital had shifted from Khijjinga Kotta to Haripur. The ruins of the temples and palaces built then can be found at Haripur about 16 km southeast of Baripada. Among the ruins, the Rasikaraya temple and the Durbar hall of the Bhanj kings are the most significant."
"The rulers were Rajputs of the Bhanj dynasty,[3] tradition saying that since the mythical founder Sila Bhanja Angaddi they were the longest reigning clan of monarchs in the area.[4] Since they very good relations with the Mayur kings of Kendujhar, the Mayurs and the Bhanjas joined and gave origin to the name of the state."
"The Bhanj rulers were promoters of art, architecture and culture. The Hari Baladev Jiu Temple, the Khichhing temple and other architecture in and around the district stand testimony to this. Also the royal family was responsible for the development and promotion of the Chhau dance form which integrates martial, tribal and classical elements.[5]"
British rule
"Mayurbhanj State had been under Maratha rule during the 18th century and became a British protectorate in 1829, many years after the Third Anglo-Maratha War. During the British Raj the kings of Mayurbhanj pioneered the upliftment of the region. Under their enlightened rule Mayurbhanj became one of the most progressive areas. The Bhanj kings established the first medical college of the state in Cuttack, donating funds and land for the establishment of higher education institutions such as Ravenshaw College and welfare schemes, such as the one undertaken by the Evangelical Missionary Society of Mayurbhanj (EMSM), established in 1895 at the instance of Maharaja Sriram Chandra Bhanj Deo.[6] Mayurbhanj Palace was built by Maharani Sumitra Devi Bhanj Deo in 1804.[7]"
The Mayurbhanj State Railway was started by the erstwhile ruler of Mayurbhanj Maharaja Shri Sriram Chandra Bhanj Deo. The first section of 52 km from Rupsa to Baripada railway station being opened for traffic on 20 January 1905.[8]
The rulers of Mayurbhanj State bore the title of 'Raja' from mid 19th century and the title of 'Maharaja' from 1910 until the last head of the state.[9] They were entitled to a 9 gun salute.[10]
Early rulers
1688 - 1711 Savesvara Bhanj Deo 1711 - 1728 Viravikramaditya Bhanj Deo 1728 - 1750 Raghunath Bhanj Deo 1750 - 1761 Chakradhar Bhanj Dep 1761 - 1796 Damodar Bhanj Deo 1796 - 1811 Sumitra Devi (f) -Rani 1811 - 1822 Tribikram Bhanj Deo (d. 1822) 1811 - 1813 Rani Jamuna Devi (f) -Regent 1822 - 18.. Jadunath Bhanj Deo (d. 1863)
Rajas
"18.. - 1863 Jadunath Bhanj Deo (s.a.) (personal style of Maharaja) 1863 - 1868 Shrinath Bhanj Deo (d. 1868) 1868 - 29 May 1882 Krishnachandra Bhanj Deo (b. 1848 - d. 1882) (from 1877, personal style of Maharaja) 29 May 1882 - 1910 Sriram Chandra Bhanj Deo (b. 1871 - d. 1912) married Maharani Sucharu Devi 29 May 1882 - 15 Aug 1892 .... -Regent"
Maharajas
"1910 - 22 Feb 1912 Ramchandra Bhanj Deo (s.a.) 22 Feb 1912 - 21 Apr 1928 Purnachandra Bhanj Deo (b. 1899 - d. 1928) 22 Feb 1912 - 21 Apr 1928 .... -Regent 21 Apr 1928 - 15 Apr 1947 Pratapchandra Bhanj Deo (b. 1901 - d. 1968) (from 1 Jan 1935, Sir Pratapchandra Bhanj Deo)"
"The Gajapatis were a medieval Hindu dynasty (ଗଜପତି ସାମ୍ରାଜ୍ୟ୍) that ruled over Kalinga (present Odisha), large parts of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, and the eastern and central parts of Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand from 1434 to 1541. The Gajapati dynasty was established by Kapilendra Deva (1434–66) in 1434. During the glorious reign of Kapilendra Deva, the first Gajapati emperor, the borders of the empire of Kalinga-Utkal were expanded immensely and the king took the title of Sri Sri ... (108 times) Gajapati Gaudesvara Nava Koti Karnata Kalvargesvara. This title is still used by the kings of Puri during the Ratha Yatra. The significant rulers of this dynasty were Purushottama Deva (1466–1497) and Prataparudra Deva (1497–1540). The last ruler Kakharua Deva was killed by Govinda Vidyadhara in 1541, who founded the Bhoi dynasty."
"""Gaja"" (ଗଜ) in Odia means elephant and ""Pati"" (ପତି) means master or husband. As such, Gajapati etymologically means a king with an army of elephants."
"The region known as Kalinga (present-day Odisha) was controlled by the Odia rulers Eastern Gangas of the Vasistha gotra. The early Eastern Gangas ruled from Kalinga-nagara (Mukhalingam near Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh). They shifted their capital to Puri in the 12th century. Religious leader Ramanujacharya had a great influence on the Raja Choda Ganga Deva, who renovated the temple at Puri. Narasimha Deva built the Sun Temple at Konark. The Gangas were succeeded by the Gajapati rulers. Two copper plates of the early Pallava dynasty have been found in the Kolleru Lake, traced to Gajapati Langula Narasimha Deva, an Oriya ruler(Odiya Rajulu/Vaddi). According to legend, the Gajapathi fort was located at Kolleti Kota on one of the eastern islands of the lake, which protected the Odia forces. The enemy general encamped at Chiguru Kota located on the shores and tried to excavate a channel in the modern-day Upputeru, so that the water of the lake would empty into the sea and allow an attack on the Gajapathi fort. The Odisa army general sacrificed his own daughter (Perantala Kanama) to propitiate the gods and ensure his success against his enemies."
Cultural contributions
"In the history of Odisha, Dharmapada was the son of a great architect, who completed the construction of a temple in a single night to save 1,200 craftsmen from execution, and then sacrificed his own life to prevent the story from spreading."
"According to history, king Narsimha Dev of the Eastern Ganga Dynasty decided to build a massive temple in Konark. The temple was to be in the shape of the sun god riding in his chariot. 1,200 craftsmen were found to work on the temple, led by one named Bishu Maharana; the project was to take five years."
"A debate then took place among the craftsmen. Fearing for their own lives if it became known that a child had completed the work instead of them, they demanded that Dharmapada be killed, a suggestion his father strenuously resisted. At last, to settle this debate, Dharmapada jumped from the crown he had completed, killing himself and ensuring the safety of the craftsmen."
Temple
"The temple that Dharmapada is said to have completed still stands in Konark today, although in a somewhat dilapidated state. Constructed in the 13th century, it has been pillaged several times since then, and has suffered severe damage. It is listed today as a World Heritage Site."
See also
Dharmapada (person)
Keshto Mukherjee (Bengali: কেষ্টো মুখোপাধ্যায়; died 3 March 1982[1]) was an Indian film actor and comedian.[2][3] He specialised in comic drunkard roles in Hindi films.[4]
"Though he was famous for his drunkard typecast role in Hindi films, he used to share a very good relation with the iconic director Ritwik Ghatak and had very tiny but important roles in the maestro's films such as the trickster in Bari Theke Paliye, the madman in Ajantrik or character roles in Nagarik and Jukti Takko Aar Gappo."
Interesting Facts about Keshto Mukherjee
Filmography
Keshto Mukherjee
"Jagdeep (Urdu: جگدیپ‎ is the screen name of Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jaffery; born 29 March 1939 in datia, India) is an Indian film actor who has appeared in more than 300 films. He is especially known for his comic roles. He played Soorma Bhopali in Sholay (1975), Machchar in Purana Mandir (1984), Salman Khan's dad in Andaz Apna Apna (1994) and directed a movie Soorma Bhopali with this character as the protagonist.[2]"
"Jankidas Mehra (1910 – 18 June 2003) was a prolific Indian film actor of Hindi Cinema, cyclist, production designer and writer. He made over 1000 film appearances between the 1930s and 1997.[1]"
Sports
Jankidas served as the only Indian member of the International Olympic Committee at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin [1] and the only Indian to have broken the world record in cycling between 1934 and 1942.[2]
"In the 1940s, along with Sohrab Bhoot, he founded the Cycling Federation of India"
Films
Jankidas debuted in film playing a major role in Khazanchi (1941) produced in Lahore. He was seen against till 1946 when he would appear in Dr. Kotnis Ki Amar Kahani. From then on he would continue to play roles with increasing vigour over the years.
"Jankidas is credited with being the first production designer in the Indian film industry and had designed several films including Pathar aur Paya and Warrant.[1] As a production designer, Jankidas was responsible for the founding of many famous Indian actor careers. He was responsible for Madhubala's role in Sohrab Modi's Daulat in 1947 and introduced Meena Kumari in Nanabhai Bhatt's Hamara Ghar and Khusboo in Sunil Dutt's Dard Ka Rishta.[2] He also introduced actress Mala Sinha in Hamlet, produced and directed by Kishore Sahu."
In 1985 he wrote the script to the film Yaadon Ki Kasam.
"Jankidas was the recipient of numerous national and international awards. In May 1996, he was honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award given by the Indian Motion Pictures Producers' Association.[2]"
Jankidas was also an author and wrote numerous books on Bollywood and the acting profession. He published My Misadventures in Filmland and Acting for Beginners.[1]
Death
Jankidas was suffering from a heart ailment for a substantial period of time but was discharged from the local hospital two days before his death.[2] He died of cardiac failure at his Juhu residence on Wednesday 18 June 2003. He was 93.
Television actor
Hasna Mat Mr. Dhansukh Hi! Padosi... Kaun Hai Doshi? Movers & Shakers Interview Kader Khan at Sab TV - (2012)
Film producer
Shama (1981)
"Kader Khan is an Indian film actor, comedian, script and dialogue writer, as well as director. He has appeared in over 300 films after his debut in the 1973 film Daag in which he acted as a prosecuting attorney.[3] Khan graduated from Ismail Yusuf College affiliated to Bombay University. Before entering the film industry in the early 1970s, he taught at M. H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering, Mumbai as a professor of Civil Engineering."
"Khan was born in Kabul, Afghanistan.[4] His father was Abdul Rehman Khan from Kandahar while his mother was Iqbal Begum from Pishin, British India (now in Balochistan, Pakistan). Khan had three brothers Shams ur Rehman, Fazal Rehman and Habib ur Rehman.[5] He is an ethnic Pashtun of the Kakar tribe.[5] He is a Haffiz-e-Quran."
"He enrolled in a local municipal school and later in the Ismail Yusuf College after which he obtained a Master's Diploma in Engineering (MIE) from the Institution of Engineers (India) specializing in Civil engineering. Between 1970 and 1975, he taught at M. H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering in Byculla as teacher of civil engineering."
"On the college's annual day function, Khan took part in a play and it was acclaimed by all present. Actor Dilip Kumar came to know about it; he called him and showed keenness in watching the play. Khan made special arrangements and acted the play for him. Kumar was so impressed that he signed him for his next two films: Sagina Mahato and Bairaag."
Career
"Khan has acted in over 300[3] films in Hindi and Urdu and has written dialogues for over 250 Indian films, from the 1970s up to the turn of the 21st century.[7] Manmohan Desai paid him a handsome amount of one lakh twenty-one thousand for writing dialogues for the film Roti (1974). He is most popularly recognized for working with actor Jeetendra, Feroz Khan, Amitabh Bachchan, Govinda and in films by David Dhawan. He has worked side-by-side with other comedians like Shakti Kapoor[8] and Johnny Lever.[7] He has played a large variety of parts in films like a supporting role of a father, uncle, brother, main villain or the side villain, guest actor and comedian."
"He recently appeared in Tevar (2015), Hera Pheri 3 (2016), Mujhse Shaadi Karogi (2004), Lucky: No Time for Love (2006) and Family: Ties of Blood (2006). He starred in his own comedy television series titled Hasna Mat, which aired on Star Plus. He made a comeback on Indian television with a comedy series Hi! Padosi... Kaun Hai Doshi? on Sahara One.[9]"
Dialogue and script writer
"As a dialogue writer Kader Khan has worked with Manmohan Desai and Prakash Mehra for their films starring Amitabh Bachchan. Besides Amitabh, he was the only one to work in the rival camps of Mehra and Desai. His films with them include Ganga Jamuna Saraswati, Sharaabi, Coolie, Desh Premee, Lawaaris, Suhaag, Muqaddar Ka Sikandar, Parvarish and Amar Akbar Anthony.[10]"
2013: Sahitya Shiromani Award for his work and contributions to Hindi Film industry and Cinema.
1982: Filmfare Award for Best Dialogue for Meri Awaaz Suno 1991: Filmfare Best Comedian Award for Baap Numbri Beta Dus Numbri 1993: Filmfare Award for Best Dialogue for Angaar 2004: Filmfare Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for Mujhse Shaadi Karogi
Filmfare Award Nominee
Manoj Prabhakar ( pronunciation (help·info) (born 15 April 1963) is a former Indian cricketer. He was a right-arm medium-pace bowler and a lower-order batsman who also opened the innings sometimes for the Indian cricket team until his retirement in 1996.
"Prabhakar took 96 wickets in Test cricket, 157 wickets in One Day Internationals, and over 385 first class wickets playing for Delhi. He has also played for Durham. Prabhakar is remembered for his bowling which was his strongest suit; using slower balls, and outswingers and opening the bowling. He was also a useful lower-order batsman and a defensive opener."
"Prabhakar regularly opened India's batting and the bowling in the same match, one of the few players to do so consistently at international level. He accomplished this 45 times in ODIs and 20 times in Tests, more than any other player in both formats.[1][2]"
"At the age of 32, Prabhakar played his last ODI against Sri Lanka in the 1996 Cricket World Cup in New Delhi. He struggled to bowl well in the match and had to bowl off-spin in the last two overs.[3] The crowd booed him off the ground.[3] After 1996 World Cup, he was not selected for the Indian team's tour of England and retired."
A graph showing Prabhakar's test career bowling statistics and how they have varied over time.
As a Coach
"Prabhakar served as the Delhi cricket team's bowling coach and as the head coach of the Rajasthan cricket team.[4] In November 2011, he was sacked as the coach of Delhi for speaking against the management and the team in media.[5] In December 2015, he was named as bowling coach of Afghanistan cricket team ahead of 2016 ICC World Twenty20 that was played in India in March 2016.[6]"
"In 1999, Prabhakar participated in Tehelka's expose of match-fixing, but was himself charged of involvement and subsequently banned by the BCCI from playing cricket.[7] He was dismissed from his coaching role with the Delhi cricket team in 2011 after he publicly criticized the players and selectors.[8]"
"Prabhakar joined the Congress party and unsuccessfully contested election to the Indian Parliament from Delhi in 2004. Prabhakar is married to actress Farheen, who is known for her roles in the films Jaan Tere Naam and Kalaignan. The couple lives in Delhi, with their two sons, Raahil Prabhakar and Manavansh Prabhakar,[9] and also Rohan Prabhakar, a son from previous marriage with Sandhya.[10]"
"Sadashiv Dattaray Amrapurkar (11 May 1950 – 3 November 2014) was an Indian actor, best known for his performances in Marathi and Hindi films in the period 1983 to 1999.[2]"
"He received the Filmfare Award for Best Performance in a Negative Role in 1991 for Sadak — the first time the award was instituted. In addition to negative roles, he has done supporting roles and, more recently, comic roles."
"Sadashiv Amrapurkar was born on May 11, 1950, in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra[3] Shevgaon Taluka, Ahmednagar, Nashik Division, in Maharashtra, India.[4]"
"Sadashiv began acting during his school and college days. While completing his Masters in History at Pune University, he was already pursuing his passion in theatre. A versatile actor, director and writer, he won a number of state as well as national level prestigious awards in theatre and film. His first film was in Govind Nihalani's Ardha Satya (1983) for which he won a Filmfare Award."
"He has acted in more than 300 movies in Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Oriya, Haryanvi, Telugu and Tamil. In 1993, he won the best actor in a villainous role Filmfare Award, the first time such award was instituted. In 1993 he also played the role of Inspector Pyare Mohan, in Aankhen, which won him accolades as a comic hero."
Career
"Amrapurkar started his career as an actor in Marathi theatre, eventually acting and directing nearly fifty plays, before transitioning to films. He made his film debut with the role of Bal Gangadhar Tilak in 22 June 1897 a Marathi historical film directed by Jayoo Patwardhan and Nachiket Patwardhan.[8]"
Illness and death
"Sadashiv Amrapurkar developed a lung inflammation in October 2014 resulting in hospitalisation at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital where his condition became critical.[12] He died on 3 November 2014, 64 years old.[13][14]"
Filmfare Awards
Works
"He directed some well-known artists like Shanta Jog, Smita Patil, Sreeram Lagoo, Bhakti Barve Inamdar, Dilip Prabhawalkar, Neena Kulkarni, and Suhas Joshi."
Selected TV series
Raj Se Swaraj (1989) Lokmanya Tilak Bharat Ek Khoj (1990) (Shyam Benegal’s work based on the discovery of India) Mahatma Phule Kulavadhu (2009) Shobha Somnath ki (2012)
Playback singer
Hou De Jarasa Ushir (2013) Agnikaal (1990)
"Ramachandra Pandurang Tope (1814 – 18 April 1859) was an Indian leader in the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and one of its notable generals. He is better known by his nickname Tatya Tope, which is also transliterated as Tantya Tope or Tantia Topi.[1]"
"Born in a Yeola of Nashik District (Maharashtra)Into a Marati Maharastrian Deshastha Brahmin, he was the only son of Pandurang Rao Tope and his wife Rukhmabai. In 1851, when [James Andrew Broun-Ramsay, 1st Marquess of Dalhousie] deprived Nana Sahib of his father's pension, Tatya Tope also became a sworn enemy of the British.[citation needed]"
Role in the 1857 uprising
"""Tantia Topee's Soldiery"" Illustrated London News, 1858"
"Old India Photos - Tatya Tope and troops, 1857"
Tope admitted the charges brought before him saying that he was answerable to his master the Peshwa only. He was executed at the gallows on 18 April 1859.[citation needed]
References
Further reading
Tatya Tope
"Syed Mujtaba Hussain Kirmani  pronunciation (help·info) (born 29 December 1949, in Madras) played cricket for India and Karnataka as a wicket-keeper."
"He started off as an understudy to Farokh Engineer in the tours of England in 1971 and 1974 and to the 1975 Cricket World Cup. Kirmani made his debut against New Zealand and in his second Test, equalled the world record of six victims in an innings. He followed this with an atrocious series in West Indies where he missed numerous chances and considerably contributed to Vivian Richards scoring hundreds in three consecutive Tests."
"When New Zealand toured India the next year, he topped the batting averages with 65.33, and scored 305 runs in the tour of Australia. He did not have a very good time behind the stumps against Pakistan and West Indies in 1978–79."
"He was dropped in favour of Bharath Reddy for the 1979 Cricket World Cup and the subsequent series against England. Sunil Gavaskar was also sacked as the captain. Though Kirmani was dropped ostensibly for performance, there was a rumour that the real reason was that both he and Gavaskar had been approached by the organisers of the Kerry Packer's World Series Cricket."
"Back in the team for the series against Australia in 1979–80, he scored a hundred as a nightwatchman in Bombay. His innings of 101* in five hours nearly lasted out the day. He had 17 catches and two stumpings against Pakistan in the same season and it equalled Naren Tamhane's Indian record for a single series. Against England in 1981–82, he did not concede a single bye in three consecutive Tests while 1964 runs were scored."
1983 World Cup
"Kirmani won the award for the best wicket keeper in the 1983 Cricket World Cup, his highlight of which was the catch of Faoud Bacchus that he took in the final against the West Indies. In the first round match against Zimbabwe, he equalled the then record by effecting three catches and two stumpings. Against West Indies at home, he partnered Sunil Gavaskar - who scored 236* - in a record stand of 143* for the ninth wicket in the Madras Test. Kirmani was a lower order reliable batsman and another example is the unbroken 126 for ninth wicket with Kapil Dev against Zimbabwe in the 1983 World Cup with Kirmani contributing 26 and that partnership proved critical in India being able to continue their run in the tournament."
"At Bombay the next year, he scored his second hundred in Tests making 102 and adding 235 with Ravi Shastri, still an Indian record for the seventh wicket. In the Madras Test in the same series, he missed some crucial catches which contributed to an Indian defeat. He was dropped at the end of that series in favour of Sadanand Viswanath."
"Kirmani made a comeback in the Australian tour of 1985–86, where he fared reasonably well. He had just taken an outstanding catch to dismiss Allan Border in a World Series Cup match, when he hurt his leg badly. He was forced to sit out of the remaining matches of the tournament and that effectively ended his international career. India went for younger keepers like Kiran More and Chandrakant Pandit and despite trying hard, Kirmani was never able to regain his place."
In movies
"Kirmani played the role of an underworld character in the movie Kabhi Ajnabhi The, which also featured his contemporary Sandip Patil. One of his distinguishing characteristics was his clean shaven head. He served as the chairman of the selection committee for India in the early 2000s. He also plays a cameo role in an upcoming Malayalam film entitled Mazhavillinattam Vare. He will be playing himself in the film which is about a young Pakistani cricketer's life-changing journey.[1]"
He was awarded the Padma Sri in 1982.
Syed Kirmani
Bishan Singh Bedi  pronunciation (help·info) (sometimes spelt as Bishen Singh Bedi; born 25 September 1946) is a former Indian cricketer who was primarily a slow left-arm orthodox bowler. He played Test cricket for India from 1966 to 1979 and formed part of the famous Indian spin quartet. He played a total of 67 test and took 266 wickets. He also captained the national side in 22 Test matches. Bedi wore a colourful patka and has voiced outspoken and forthright views on cricketing matters.
"In Indian domestic cricket, Bedi first played for Northern Punjab when only fifteen, having taken up cricket only two years previously, a particularly late age for this sport.[1] He moved to Delhi in 1968–69 and in the 1974–75 season of the Ranji Trophy, he took a record 64 wickets. Bedi also represented Northamptonshire in English county cricket for many years. He finished his career with 1560 wickets in first-class cricket—more than any other Indian."
"His bowling has been described as graceful, even beautiful, and full of guile and artistry.[2] He was an expert in flighting the ball, and was capable of making it hold it back or hurry forward and added subtle variations of spin. His action was so relaxed and co-ordinated that he was able to bowl all day with rhythm and control, a great asset to any captain. He had several very successful Test series:[3]"
"His best Test bowling was 7/98 against Australia at Calcutta in 1969–70, and his best match figures 10/194 at Perth in 1978–79, also against Australia.[3] His best first class bowling was 7/5 for Delhi vs Jammu and Kashmir at New Delhi 1974–75.[3] Although his batting was poor he hit a boundary off the second last ball in the Gillette Cup Semi Final for Northamptonshire vs Hampshire, winning the match by two wickets.[3] His highest score of 50 not out, his only half century at Test level, was scored against New Zealand in Kanpur in 1976.[4]"
"Bedi was appointed captain of India in 1976, succeeding Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi. His first Test victory as captain was against the West Indies at Port-of-Spain in the 3rd Test of the 1976 series in which India scored a then-record 406 in the fourth innings.[5] This was followed up by a 2–0 series victory over New Zealand at home. However, after successive Test series losses to England (3–1 at home), Australia (3–2 away) and Pakistan (2–0 away), he was replaced as captain by Sunil Gavaskar."
"In 2008, Wisden Cricketers' Almanack named Bedi as one of the five best cricketers to have not been selected as a Wisden Cricketer of the Year.[6]"
Controversy
"Following India's record-breaking run-chase in the 3rd Test of the 1976 series against the West Indies, the West Indies opted for an aggressive four-man fast bowler attack for the 4th Test. Bedi objected to their tactics, which he regarded as intimidatory, and declared the Indian first innings closed early after two players were forced to retire hurt. Subsequently, five players were absent hurt in the second innings of the match.[8]"
In England's tour of India in 1976–77 he accused John Lever of using Vaseline to illegally polish the ball in the Third Test at Madras. Lever wore Vaseline strips on his forehead to keep the sweat out of his eyes; he was subsequently cleared of any wrongdoing.[3]
Coaching
"In 1990, he had a brief stint as coach of the Indian national team. He was the first person to be appointed to this job in a full-time capacity. Following one cricket tour where India had played poorly, he threatened to dump the entire team in the sea on the return journey.[10]"
Records
"Bedi holds the world record for the most economical bowling figures in a 60-over ODI match amongst the bowlers who had completed their quota of overs (12 overs). In the 1975 World Cup, when the bowlers were allowed to deliver 12 overs, Bedi finished with 12-8-6-1 (overs-maidens-runs-wickets) against East Africa at Headingley.[20]"
"Bedi is married to Anju Inderjit Bedi, and lives in Delhi. Bedi and Anju have two children. Their daughter, Neha has been a CNN IBN Sports correspondent since its inception."
Bishan Singh Bedi
"Teesri Kasam (The Third Vow) is a 1966 Hindi language drama film directed by Basu Bhattacharya. It is based on the short story Mare Gaye Gulfam by the Hindi novelist Phanishwarnath Renu. The film stars Raj Kapoor and Waheeda Rehman. The duo Shankar-Jaikishan composed the film's score. The film's cinematography is by Subrata Mitra. Dialogues are by Phanishwarnath Renu and the screenplay by Nabendu Ghosh. Teesri Kasam is an unconventional film that portrays rural Indian society. It is the story of a naive bullock cart driver who falls in love with a dancer at nautanki, the popular folk theatre of the Bihar region. The film also deals with the issue of exploitation of women in the performing arts, especially in travelling folk theatre.[1] The film won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film at the 14th National Film Awards."
Cast
"Raj Kapoor, Hiraman Waheeda Rehman, Hirabai Dulari, Hiraman's bhabhi (sister in law) Iftekhar, Vikram Singh Keshto Mukherji, Shivratan A.K. Hangal, Hiraman's older brother Asit Sen C. S. Dubey Shailendra"
"The film was received well and took the National Film Award for Best Feature Film, however, commercially, it was a failure. Bhattacharya turned to middle cinema (a meeting of mainstream Bollywood and art house cinema). In time, the film came to be regarded as a classic. [8][9]"
Teesri Kasam
Further reading
"Dadasaheb Phalke, often credited as ""the father of Indian cinema"", made India's first full-length feature Raja Harishchandra (1913)."
"The Dadasaheb Phalke Award is India's highest award in cinema. It is presented annually at the National Film Awards ceremony by the Directorate of Film Festivals, an organisation set up by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The recipient is honoured for their ""outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian cinema""[1] and is selected by a committee consisting of eminent personalities from the Indian film industry.[2] As of 2014[update], the award comprises a Swarna Kamal (Golden Lotus) medallion, a shawl, and a cash prize of ₹1,000,000 (US$15,000).[3]"
"First presented in 1969, the award was introduced by the Government of India to commemorate Dadasaheb Phalke's contribution to Indian cinema.[4] Phalke (1870–1944), who is popularly known as and often regarded as ""the father of Indian cinema"", was an Indian film-maker who directed India's first full-length feature film, Raja Harishchandra (1913).[1]"
"The first recipient of the award was actress Devika Rani, who was honoured at the 17th National Film Awards. As of 2015[update], there have been 47 awardees. Among those, actor Prithviraj Kapoor is the sole posthumous recipient.[5] His actor-filmmaker son, Raj Kapoor, accepted the award on his behalf at the 19th National Film Awards in 1971 and was himself a recipient in 1987 at the 35th National Film Awards ceremony.[6][7][lower-alpha 1] Bommireddy Narasimha Reddy (1974) and Bommireddy Nagi Reddy (1986);[10] Raj Kapoor (1987) and Shashi Kapoor (2014);[11] Lata Mangeshkar (1989) and Asha Bhosle (2000) along with Baldev Raj Chopra (1998) and Yash Chopra (2001) are the siblings who have won the award.[12][13] The most recent recipient of the award is actor Manoj Kumar who was honoured at the 63rd National Film Awards ceremony.[14]"
Recipients
"List of award recipients by year[1] Year (Ceremony) Image Recipient Film industry Notes 1969 (17th) Devika Rani Hindi Widely acknowledged as ""the first lady of Indian cinema"",[15] the actress debuted in Karma (1933), which was the first Indian English-language film and the first Indian film to feature an on-screen kiss.[16] She also founded the first Indian public limited film company, Bombay Talkies, in 1934.[17] 1970 (18th)  – Birendranath Sircar Bengali The founder of two production companies, International Filmcraft and New Theatres, Sircar is considered to be one of the pioneers of Indian cinema. He also built two cinema theatres in Calcutta, one for screening Bengali films and one for Hindi films.[18] 1971 (19th) Prithviraj Kapoor[lower-alpha 2] Hindi Kapoor began his acting career in theatres and starred in India's first sound film, Alam Ara (1931). He founded Prithvi Theatre, a travelling theatre company in 1944 ""to promote Hindi stage productions"".[5] 1972 (20th) Pankaj Mullick  • Bengali  • Hindi A composer, singer and actor, Mullick began his career providing background music by conducting live orchestras during the screening of silent films.[19] He is best known for Mahishasuramardini, a radio musical composed in 1931.[20] 1973 (21st) Ruby Myers (Sulochana) Hindi One of the highest-paid actresses of her time, Sulochana made her debut with Veer Bala (1925) and is considered to be ""the first sex symbol of Indian cinema"".[21] 1974 (22nd)  – Bommireddy Narasimha Reddy Telugu The director of fifteen feature films in Telugu, Reddy was the first Indian film personality to be honoured with a Doctor of Letters and also the first to receive the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award in India.[22] 1975 (23rd) Dhirendra Nath Ganguly Bengali Considered one of the founders of Bengali film industry, Ganguly debuted as an actor in Bilat Ferat (1921). He established three production companies - Indo British Film Company (1918), Lotus Film Company (1922) and British Dominion Films Studio (1929) - to direct several Bengali films.[23] 1976 (24th) Kanan Devi Bengali Acknowledged as ""the first lady of Bengali cinema"", Kanan Devi made her acting debut in silent films in the 1920s. She also sang songs written by Rabindranath Tagore and was a producer with her film company, Shrimati Pictures.[24] 1977 (25th)  – Nitin Bose  • Bengali  • Hindi A cinematographer, director and screenwriter, Bose is noted for introducing playback singing to Indian cinema in 1935 through his Bengali film Bhagya Chakra and its Hindi remake Dhoop Chhaon.[25][26] 1978 (26th)  – Raichand Boral  • Bengali  • Hindi Considered one of the pioneers of Indian film music, Boral was a music director who, in collaboration with director Nitin Bose, introduced the system of playback singing in Indian cinema.[27] 1979 (27th) Sohrab Modi Hindi An actor and film-maker, Modi is credited with bringing Shakespearean classics to Indian cinema and was noted for his delivery of Urdu dialogue.[28] 1980 (28th) Paidi Jairaj  • Hindi  • Telugu Initially having worked as a body double, actor-director Jairaj is known for his portrayal of Indian historical characters and was involved in instituting the Filmfare Awards.[29] 1981 (29th) Naushad Hindi Music director Naushad debuted with Prem Nagar (1940),[30] and is credited with introducing the technique of sound mixing to Indian cinema.[31] 1982 (30th)  – L. V. Prasad  • Hindi  • Tamil  • Telugu Actor-director-producer L. V. Prasad has the distinction of acting in the first talkie films produced in three languages: the Hindi Alam Ara, Tamil Kalidas and Telugu Bhakta Prahlada, all released in 1931.[32] He founded Prasad Studios in 1965 and the Colour Film Laboratory in 1976.[33] Prasad Studios has produced over 150 film in various Indian languages.[34] 1983 (31st) Durga Khote  • Hindi  • Marathi Having acted in the first Marathi-language talkie Ayodhyecha Raja (1932), Khote is considered a pioneer among women in Indian cinema.[35] She set up two production companies, Fact Films and Durga Khote Productions, which produced short films and documentaries.[36] 1984 (32nd) Satyajit Ray Bengali Having debuted as a director with Pather Panchali (1955),[37] the film-maker Ray is credited with bringing world recognition to Indian cinema.[38] 1985 (33rd)  – V. Shantaram  • Hindi  • Marathi Actor and film-maker V. Shantaram produced and directed India's first colour film, Sairandhri (1931).[39] He also produced and direct the first Marathi-language talkie, Ayodhyecha Raja (1932), and was associated with nearly 100 films over 50 years.[40] 1986 (34th)  – B. Nagi Reddy Telugu Reddy produced more than 50 films, beginning in the 1950s. He established Vijaya Vauhini Studios which was at that time the biggest film studio in Asia.[10] 1987 (35th) Raj Kapoor Hindi Often revered as ""The Show Man"",[41] actor and film-maker Kapoor's performance in the Hindi film Awara (1951) was ranked as one of the top ten greatest performances of all time by Time magazine in 2010.[42] 1988 (36th) Ashok Kumar Hindi Popularly known as ""Dadamoni"" (the grand old man), Kumar is noted for his roles in Achhut Kannya (1936), Bandhan (1940) and Kismet (1943), the first blockbuster in Indian cinema.[43] 1989 (37th) Lata Mangeshkar  • Hindi  • Marathi Widely credited as the ""nightingale of India"",[44] playback singer Mangeshkar started her career in the 1940s and has sung songs in over 36 languages.[45] 1990 (38th) Akkineni Nageswara Rao Telugu Having debuted in Dharma Pathini (1941), Akkineni Nageswara Rao acted in more than 250 films, mostly in the Telugu language.[46] 1991 (39th)  – Bhalji Pendharkar Marathi Film-maker Pendharkar started his career in the 1920s and produced more than 60 Marathi films and eight Hindi films. He has been widely recognised for the historical and social narratives depicted in these films.[47] 1992 (40th) Bhupen Hazarika Assamese Popularly referred to as ""the Bard of Brahmaputra"", musician Hazarika is best known for his folk songs and ballads sung in the Assamese language.[48] 1993 (41st)  – Majrooh Sultanpuri Hindi Lyricist Sultanpuri penned his first Hindi song for Shahjehan (1946) and wrote around 8000 songs for over 350 Hindi films.[49] 1994 (42nd) Dilip Kumar Hindi Debuting in Jwar Bhata (1944), the ""Tragedy King"" Dilip Kumar acted in more than 60 Hindi films in a career that spanned over six decades.[50] 1995 (43rd)  – Rajkumar Kannada In a career spanning over 45 years, Rajkumar acted in more than 200 Kannada-language films and also won a National Film Award for Best Male Playback Singer in 1992.[51] 1996 (44th) Sivaji Ganesan Tamil Ganesan debuted as an actor in Parasakthi (1952) and went on to appear in more than 300 films. He is known for his ""expressive and resonant voice"".[52] 1997 (45th)  – Kavi Pradeep Hindi Best known for the patriotic song ""Aye Mere Watan Ke Logo"", lyricist Pradeep wrote around 1700 songs, hymns and fiery nationalistic poems, including the lyrics for more than 80 Hindi films.[53] 1998 (46th) B. R. Chopra Hindi Film-maker B. R. Chopra established his own production house, B. R. Films, in 1956,[54] and is best known for the films such as Naya Daur (1957) and Hamraaz (1967), as well as the TV series Mahabharat based on the similarly-titled epic of Hindu literature.[55] 1999 (47th)  – Hrishikesh Mukherjee Hindi Having directed 45 Hindi films, film-maker Mukherjee is credited with popularising ""middle-of-the-road cinema"" through films like Anuradha (1960), Anand (1971) and Gol Maal (1979).[56] 2000 (48th) Asha Bhosle  • Hindi  • Marathi A playback singer of ""extraordinary range and versatility"",[57] Bhosle began her singing career in 1948 and is acknowledged by The Guinness Book of World Records as the ""most recorded artist in music history"".[58] 2001 (49th) Yash Chopra Hindi The founder of Yash Raj Films, Chopra debuted as a director with Dhool Ka Phool (1959). He directed 22 Hindi films.[59] 2002 (50th) Dev Anand Hindi Widely revered as ""evergreen star of Hindi cinema"",[60] actor and film-maker Anand co-founded Navketan Films in 1949 and produced 35 films.[61] 2003 (51st) Mrinal Sen Bengali Regarded as one of ""India's most important film-makers"",[62] Sen debuted as a director with Raat Bhore (1955) and made 27 films in 50 years.[63] 2004 (52nd) Adoor Gopalakrishnan Malayalam Credited with pioneering the new wave cinema movement in Malayalam cinema, director Gopalakrishnan won the National Film Award for Best Direction for his debut film, Swayamvaram (1972). He has been acclaimed for his ""ability to portray complex problems in a simplistic way"".[64] 2005 (53rd) Shyam Benegal Hindi Benegal started his career by making advertising films. He directed his first feature film, Ankur, in 1973. His films have focused on women and their rights.[65] 2006 (54th)  – Tapan Sinha  • Bengali  • Hindi Film-maker Sinha debuted as a director in 1954 and made more than 40 feature films in the Bengali, Hindi and Oriya languages. Most of the films addressed problems faced by ordinary people.[66] 2007 (55th) Manna Dey  • Bengali  • Hindi In a career spanning over five decades, playback singer Dey sang over 3500 songs in various Indian languages. He is also credited with ""pioneering a new genre by infusing Indian classical music in a pop framework"".[67] 2008 (56th) V. K. Murthy Hindi Best known for his collaboration with director Guru Dutt, cinematographer Murthy shot India's first cinemascope film, Kaagaz Ke Phool (1959).[68] He is best remembered for his lighting techniques in Pyaasa (1957) and the ""beam shot"" in Kaagaz Ke Phool is considered a classic in celluloid history.[69] 2009 (57th)  – D. Ramanaidu Telugu In a career spanning over 50 years, D. Ramanaidu produced more than 130 films in various Indian languages but mostly Telugu.[70] He features in The Guinness Book of World Records for having produced films in nine languages.[71] 2010 (58th) K. Balachander  • Tamil  • Telugu Film-maker K. Balachander debuted as a director with Neerkumizhi (1965). He made more than 100 films in various Indian languages through his production house, Kavithalayaa Productions, established in 1981.[72] 2011 (59th) Soumitra Chatterjee Bengali Best known for his frequent collaboration with director Satyajit Ray,[73] Chatterjee debuted as an actor in Apur Sansar (1959) and worked with other directors, such as Mrinal Sen and Tapan Sinha, in a career lasting over 50 years.[74] 2012 (60th) Pran Hindi Known for his ""compelling and highly stylized performances"", actor Pran mainly played villainous characters in Hindi films during a career spanning over 50 years.[75] 2013 (61st) Gulzar Hindi Gulzar began his career as a lyricist for Bandini (1963) and debuted as a director with Mere Apne (1971). Known for his successful collaboration with music directors like R. D. Burman and A. R. Rahman, Gulzar won several awards for his lyrics in a career spanning over 50 years.[76][77] 2014 (62nd) Shashi Kapoor Hindi Winner of two National Film Awards including Best Actor for New Delhi Times in 1985, Kapoor debuted as a child actor at the age of four in the plays directed by his father Prithviraj Kapoor and later as a leading man in the 1961 film Dharmputra. In 1978, Kapoor set up his production house Film ""Valas"" and played major role in reviving the Prithvi Theatre group, set up by his father.[11] 2015 (63rd) Manoj Kumar Hindi Known for his image as the patriotic hero, Kumar debuted as an actor with 1957 Hindi film Fashion. The actor and director of patriotic theme based movies, Kumar is fondly called as ""Bharat Kumar"".[14]"
"In April 2013, Gulzar was appointed as the Chancellor of the Assam University.[31]"
"Gulzar is married to actress Raakhee. The couple have a daughter, Meghna Gulzar (Bosky).Meghna Gulzar grew up with her mother & father and, after completing her graduation in films from New York University, went on to become a director of films like Filhaal, Just Married and Dus Kahaniyaan,[32] and authored the biography of her father Gulzar, in 2004.[33]"
Awards and nominations
Audiobooks
Biographies
"'Jai HO' - A collection of Translation of Gulzar Sahab's Hindi lyrics to Kannada by Lakshmikant Itnal will be published shortly by Sahitya Prakashan, Hubli, Karnataka, with foreword by popular lyricist and writer,poet Jayant Kaikini."
"'Dastak'- A collection of Translation of Gulzar Sahab's Ghazals, Nazms, Poems to Kannada by Lakshmikant Itnal will also published shortly, by Sahitya prakashana, Hubli, Karnataka with foreword by popular lyricist and writer, poet Jayant Kaikini."
"Sampooran Singh Kalra (born 18 August 1934[lower-alpha 1]), known popularly by his pen name Gulzar, is an Indian poet, lyricist and film director.[2] Born in Jhelum District in British India, his family moved to India after partition. He started his career with music director S.D. Burman (lovingly known as Burman Dada) as a lyricist in the 1963 film Bandini and worked with many music directors including R. D. Burman, Salil Chowdhury, Vishal Bhardwaj and A. R. Rahman. He directed films such as Aandhi and Mausam and TV series Mirza Ghalib during the 1970s and 1980s. He also directed Kirdaar in 1993."
"Gulzar also wrote poetry, dialogues and scripts. He was awarded Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award in India,[3] the Sahitya Akademi Award and the Dadasaheb Phalke Award — the highest award in Indian cinema. He has won several Indian National Film Awards, 20 Filmfare Awards, one Academy Award and one Grammy Award.[4][5]"
Early life
"Gulzar was born in a Kalra Sikh family, to Makhan Singh Kalra and Sujan Kaur, in Dina, Jhelum District, British India (now in Pakistan). Before becoming a writer, Sampooran took up lot of small jobs in Mumbai one of them was in a garage where he used to touch up accident cars by creating shades of paint, in his own words ""I had a knack for colors"". His father rebuked him for being writer initially. He took the pen name Gulzar Deenvi and later simply Gulzar.[1][2][6] [7]"
"Gulzar began his career under the film directors Bimal Roy and Hrishikesh Mukherjee. His book Ravi Paar has a narrative of Bimal Roy and the agony of creation. He started his career as a songwriter with the music director Sachin Dev Burman for the movie Bandini (1963).[8] Shailendra who has penned rest of the songs of the movie requested Gulzar to write the song ""Mora Gora Ang Layle"", sung by Lata Mangeshkar.[4][5][9]"
Direction
"After writing dialogues and screenplay for films like Aashirwad, Anand, Khamoshi, Gulzar directed his first film Mere Apne (1971). The film was a remake of Tapan Sinha's Bengali film Apanjan (1969).[9][19] He then directed Parichay and Koshish. Parichay was based on a Bengali novel, Rangeen Uttarain by Raj Kumar Maitra.[20] He wrote story of Koshish based on the struggle faced by deaf-dumb couple.[21] In 1973, he directed Achanak inspired by the 1958 murder case KM Nanavati v State of Maharashtra.[9][22] Later he directed Aandhi, based on the Hindi novel ""Kaali Aandhi"" by Kamleshwar.[9][20][23] His next film Khushboo was based on Sharat Chandra Chattopadhyay's Pandit Mashay. His Mausam which won National Award for 2nd Best Feature Film,[24] Filmfare Best Movie and Filmfare Best Director awards, along with other six Filmfare nominations, was loosely based on the story ""Weather"", from the novel, The Judas Tree, by A.J. Cronin. His 1982's film Angoor was based on Shakespeare's play The Comedy of Errors.[5][9]"
Poetry
"Gulzar primarily writes in Urdu and Punjabi; besides several dialects of Hindi such as Braj Bhasha, Khariboli, Haryanvi and Marwari. His poetry is in Triveni type of stanza.[5] His poems are published in three compilations: Chand Pukhraaj Ka, Raat Pashminey Ki and Pandrah Paanch Pachattar. His short stories are published in Raavi-paar (also known as Dustkhat in Pakistan) and Dhuan (smoke).[5]"
"Ravishankar Jayadritha Shastri (born 27 May 1962) is a former Indian cricketer[1] and former Director for the Indian cricket team.[2] He represented the Indian national team in both Test and One-Day matches between 1981 and 1992. Although he started his career as a left arm spin bowler, he later transformed into a batting all–rounder."
Ravi Shastri's career performance graph
Ravi Shastri in 2015
"Kaju katli (literally ""cashew slice""), also known as kaju Katari or kaju barfi, is an Indian dessert similar to a barfi. Kaju means cashew nut in Hindi. Barfi is often but not always, made by thickening milk with sugar and other ingredients (dry fruits and mild spices). Kesar kaju katli is a kaju barfi recipe that includes saffron. The kesar version of this sweet dish is considered to be more exotic and rich.[citation needed]"
Kaju katli can also be prepared by replacing the sugar syrup with crystallised sugar and heating the entire dough instead of the sugar-water syrup.
"Due to its popularity in India, Bikaner, SweetDabba and similar vendors, have also made a sugar free version of this sweet."
Filmography
As director
As actor
"Vishwanath ""Nana"" Patekar (Marathi: नाना पाटेकर, born 1 January 1951) is an Indian actor, writer and filmmaker."
"Nana Patekar known for his simple lifestyle[18] has been generous in donating to charities. He contributed money towards rebuilding of the flood ravaged villages in Bihar through the charitable organisation Anubhuthi.[19] All the monetary remuneration he obtained for his performance in the movie Paathshaala was donated by him to five different charitable organisations.[20] When he was awarded the Raj Kapoor award which carries a cash prize of Rs 10,00,000, he donated the entire amount towards drought relief activities in Maharashtra.[21] He also provided financial aid to families of farmers who committed suicide due to indebtedness brought about by drought. He distributed cheques worth Rs 15,000 to 62 families of farmers from Vidarbha region in August 2015 and another 113 families from Latur and Osmanabad districts of Marathwada in September 2015.[22][23]"
Early and personal life
"Patekar was born in a Marathi[1] family as Vishwanath Patekar on 1 January 1951 in Murud-Janjira in Raigad District, Maharashtra, to Dinkar Patekar, a small textile printing businessman, and Sanjanabai Patekar, a housewife.[2] He is an alumnus of the Sir J.J. Institute of Applied Art, Mumbai.[3][4] Nana Patekar was married to Neelakanthi Patekar and they have a son Malhar Patekar. But their marriage life did not go well and it resulted in a divorce later on.[5][6]"
Career
Patekar has played many types of roles. He has played the occasional villain but been a hero in most of his films.
He took up the sport of rifle shooting and qualified for the G.V. Mavlankar Shooting Championship.[9]
Singing career
"Patekar did some playback singing in the films Yeshwant (1997), Wajood (1998) and Aanch (2003)."
Movie direction
He turned director with Prahaar: The Final Attack co-starring Madhuri Dixit and Dimple Kapadia.
Awards and recognition
Padma Shri Award - India's fourth highest civilian honour
"Nana Patekar has been awarded Padma Shri award for his dedication in the field of Films and Arts in 2013 on the eve of 64th Republic Day.[13] Nana Patekar is the only actor ever to win Filmfare Awards in the Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Villain categories.[14]"
"Yameshwar or Jameshwar Temple is a very old temple dedicated to Shiva being worshiped by Yama. It is situated in Bhubaneswar near Bharati Matha, in Jameshwar Patna."
Architecture
"The main Vimana is in Rekha Deula style, Jaga mohan is in Pidha Deula style and there is a detached mandapa.[1] Many portions of the temple have been damaged by natural calamities as the temple is built by sandstone. The outer Prakara is built by laterite. The icons around the temple include many motifs like Dikpalas, Amarous couple, Nayikas, Vidalas, Erotics, elephant procession etc....[1] The inner Garbhagriha houses Shivalinga within a circular yonipitha.[1] The temple was built in the 13th-14th century during the Eastern Ganga dynasty.[1]"
Festivals
The Jiuntia or Puajiutia festival which is also called Dwitvahana osha falling in Ashwin is very popular with this temple. Others being Shivaratri and Kartik Purnima. All Mondays and Sankramana days are important in this temple. People who visit this temple during Bharani nakshatra are said to be free from all miseries.
List of temples in Bhubaneswar
Gallery
Yameswar Temple Nandi Ganesha idol Nrutya Mandap Linga
Yameshwar Temple
Kiran Shankar More  pronunciation (help·info) (pronounced Mo-ray) (born 4 September 1962) was the wicket-keeper for the Indian cricket team from 1984 to 1993. He was the Chairman of the Selection Committee of the BCCI till Dilip Vengsarkar took over the job in 2006.
Early career
More played for the India Under-19 team in the late 1970s.[1] He played for Tata Sports Club in the Times Shield in Bombay and for Barrow in the North Lancashire League in 1982. He toured West Indies as the understudy to Syed Kirmani in 1982–83 without playing in a Test.
"More played two major innings for Baroda in the Ranji Trophy in 1983–84 – 153* against Maharashtra and 181* against Uttar Pradesh. On the latter occasion, he added 145 for the last wicket with Vasudev Patel which stood as a Ranji record for nearly a decade. Baroda qualified for the semifinal before losing to Delhi. More appeared in two One Day Internationals against England in 1984–85."
International cricket
"More toured Australia with the Indian team in 1985–86. When an injury in an early match of the World Series Cup virtually ended the international career of Kirmani, More played in the remaining matches of the tournament. This tour starting in late 1985 is not to be confused with the famous winning tour for the World Championship of Cricket in early 1985, also in Australia. From then till 1993, More was the first choice as the wicket keeper for India in Tests. In one day matches, he often lost the place to wicket keepers who were better batsmen."
"More's first Test series, against England in 1986, was his most successful. He took 16 catches in three Tests – an Indian record against England – and came second in the batting averages. More was a small, busy batsman who often played important innings when the regular batsmen failed. He scored 50 at Barbados against West Indies in 1988–89 when India lost the first six wickets for 63, and 58* against Pakistan at Karachi when India were struggling to save the follow-on. More considered the Karachi innings the best of his career.[1] Against West Indies at Madras in 1988–89, he stumped six batsmen, five of them in the second innings, both of which remain as Test records."
1990 and after
"More was selected as Mohammad Azharuddin's vice captain in the team that toured New Zealand in 1989-90. In the second Test at Napier he scored his highest score of 73. He lost the vice captaincy to Ravi Shastri later that year in England. In the Lord's Test, More dropped the English opener Graham Gooch when he was 36, who went on to score 333 runs. In the 1992 World Cup More was involved in a minor controversy when his constant appealing led Javed Miandad to mockingly leap up and down, apparently imitating More.[2]"
"Krishna welcomes Sudama, Bhagavata Purana, 17th-century manuscript."
"Sudama (Sanskrit सुदामा IAST Sudāmā also known as Kuchela, mostly in South India) was a Brahmin childhood friend of Hindu deity Krishna from Mathura, the story of whose visit to Dwaraka to meet Krishna is mentioned in the Bhagavata Purana.[1] He was born as a poor man in order to enjoy the transcendental pastimes."
The story
Sudama offers a Garland to Krishna. Folio from a 16th-century Bhagavata Purana manuscript
"Sudama was from a poor family. His father's name was Matuka and his mother was Rocana-devi. Krishna was from the royal family. But this difference in social status did not come in the way of their friendship. They lost contact over the years and while Krishna became a military leader and King of great repute at Dwaraka, Sudama stayed as a humble and somewhat impoverished villager.[2]"
"Some time later when Sudama was going through some bad times, not even having enough money to feed his children, his wife Sushila reminded him of his friendship with Krishna..... :"
"Though initially reluctant to go to his friend for help, Sudama finally agrees to go. He leaves with nothing but some beaten rice tied in a cloth as a present. He remembers that beaten rice is Krishna's favorite and decided to give this as a gift to the Lord."
"Krishna is greatly pleased to see his old friend. He treats him royally and with much love. Overwhelmed by all this Sudama forgets to ask what he actually came for. But the Lord realises what His friend needs, and the Lord's consort Rukmini, incarnation of Lakshmi, gifts him with his desires. On his return journey, Sudama ponders his circumstances and is thankful for the great friend he has as Lord Krishna. When Sudama finally returns to his home, he finds a palatial mansion instead of the hut he had left. He also finds his family dressed in extremely nice garb and waiting for him. He lives an austere life after that, always thankful to the Lord."
"Sudama is not mentioned anywhere in the very ancient scriptures Mahabharata, Harivamsa or Vishnu Purana. The story of Sudama is very popular in Bhagavata."
Sudama bows at the glimpse of Krishna's golden palace in Dwarka. ca 1775-1790 painting.
"Sudama returns home to find in place of it, a golden palace, the gift of Krishna, ca 1775-1790 painting."
This story is told to illustrate that the Lord does not differentiate between people based on their financial status and that he will reward devotion always. Another moral taught by this story is to never expect anything free in life; God will provide for your good deeds. Another moral is not to trade bhakti for anything in return. Sudama did not ask Krishna for anything. Despite being poor Sudama had given Krishna everything he had (poha); in return the Lord gave Sudama everything he needed.
"Shri Krishna-Sudama is an immortal example of real, non-materialistic friendship. It is a perpetual symbolic definition of real friendship. Sattu-peeth pohe is a very tasty, ready-to-serve, easy-to-carry food. In it poha (beaten rice) is smeared with sattu while it is fried. Sattu peeth is prepared from grama (phutana) and wheat flour."
Adaptations
"Ajit Laxman Wadekar ( pronunciation (help·info); born 1 April 1941 in Bombay, India) is a former international cricketer who played for India between 1966 and 1974. Described as an ""aggressive batsman"", Wadekar made his first-class debut in 1958, before making his foray into international cricket in 1966. He batted at number three and was considered to be one of the finest slip fielders. Wadekar also captained the Indian cricket team which won the series in England and West Indies. The Government of India honoured him with the Arjuna Award (1967) and Padmashri (1972), India's fourth highest civilian honour."
"Born in Bombay, Wadekar's father wished him to study Mathematics so that he could become an engineer, but Wadekar instead preferred to play cricket. He made his first-class debut for Bombay in 1958–59, before making his international debut in Test in December 1966, against the West Indies at the Brabourne Stadium in Bombay. After that he became a part of the regular team, and went on to play 37 Test matches for India between 1966 and 1974, generally batting at number three."
Captaincy and overseas wins
"Wadekar was appointed the captain of Bombay, and soon was made the captain of the Indian cricket team in 1971, leading a side that included players like Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Viswanath, Farokh Engineer, and the Indian spin quartet that included Bishen Bedi, E.A.S. Prasanna, Bhagwat Chandrasekhar and Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan. He became the first Indian captain to achieve overseas wins while touring the West Indies and England in 1971. India won over five matches in the West Indies in the early 1970s, and then defeated England over three. He led India to a third successive series victory, beating England cricket team again, 2–1 in a five-match series in 1972–73."
"Wadekar continued to be the captain of the Indian team that toured England in 1974. He represented India in its first ever One Day International (ODI) game during that tour. Batting at number three, Wadekar made 67 runs, but still ended on the losing side.[1] He made scored 73 runs in his ODI career at an average of 36.50 with a strike rate of 81.11.[2] Following India's dismal performance in the series, he retired from international cricket.[3] After that tour Wadekar played just one more First-class match before retiring from all forms of cricket."
Post retirement
"Wadekar also served as the manager of the Indian cricket team in the 1990s, alongside captain Mohammad Azharuddin. He is one of the few Indians to represent the country as Test player, captain, coach/manager and the chairman of selectors. Lala Amarnath and Chandu Borde are the only other players to achieve this distinction.[4][5]"
Career statistics
Test centuries
""
""
"In Hindu Religion, Yama (Sanskrit: यम), is the lord of death. In the Rigveda, he is mentioned as one who helped humankind find a place to dwell, and gave every individual the power to tread any path to which s/he wants.[2] In Vedic tradition, Yama was considered to be the first mortal who died and espied the way to the celestial abodes; thus, as a result, he became the ruler of the departed.[citation needed] Yama's name can be interpreted to mean ""twin"", and in some myths he is paired with a twin sister Yami."
"Yama is associated with various roles in Hinduism that are not always consistent throughout the stories. Sometimes, he is the lord of justice and is associated with Dharma, such as in the Brahma Purana; in other Puranas, Yama has no association with Dharma at all. .[3]"
"Yama is also found in Buddhist texts. The Buddhist Yama, however, has developed different myths.[4]"
Characteristics
Yama holding a danda
"Yama is the deity of death in Hinduism. In Hindu Puranic scriptures, those who assist him in his work are Kala (time), Jwara (fever), Vyadhi (disease), Krodha (anger) and Asuya (jealousy). He is one of the Lokapāla and represents the south cardinal direction. In different texts, Yama can be referred to as the god of justice, as the deity Dharma, or a completely different figure altogether.[3]"
"In the Katha Upanishad, Yama is portrayed as a teacher to Nachiketa, the legendary little boy, and their conversation evolves to a discussion of the nature of humans, knowledge, Atman (soul, self) and moksha (liberation).[5]"
"In the Epic Mahabharata, he is the father of Yudhishthira (also known as Dharmaraja), the oldest brother of the five Pandavas (Karna was born prior to Kunti's wedlock, so technically Karna is Yudhishthira's older brother) and is said to have incarnated as Vidura by some accounts in the Mahabharata period."
Notes
"Eknath Dhondu 'Ekky' Solkar[1]  pronunciation (help·info) (18 March 1948 in Bombay – 26 June 2005 in Mumbai) was an Indian all-round cricketer who played 27 Tests and seven One Day Internationals for his country. He was born in Bombay, and died of heart attack in the same city at the age of 57.[1]"
"Solkar was a capable bat with a Test century to his name, and he could bowl fast as well as slow, which earned him the distinction ""Poor man's Sobers"".[1] Solkar was renowned for his excellent close fielding, of which he once remarked, ""I only watch the ball.""[1][1] His catches helped India to victory against England at The Oval in 1971, the team's first Test win in England.[1] Eknath's team-mate at Sussex Tony Greig once said, ""He was the best forward short leg I've ever seen.""[2]"
"His 53 catches in only 27 matches is the best ratio for catches per test-match among non-wicket-keepers with 20 or more Tests. He is responsible for one of cricket's most celebrated quotes, directed at Geoffrey Boycott: ""I will out you bloody.""[3]"
"Solkar's father was the head groundsman at Hindu Gymkhana, Mumbai. Solkar used to change the scoreboards for the matches played at that ground.[1] Anant Solkar, Eknath's younger brother, also played cricket at first class level, representing Maharashtra in Ranji Trophy matches."
Career
"Solkar made his Test debut against New Zealand at Hyderabad in 1969-70 and volunteered to field at short-leg. He became the first Indian Test Cricketer to be born post independence. He had a successful series against Australia the same season and against the West Indies in 1971. He was selected to open the bowling along with Abid Ali against England in England in 1971. In the first Test match of that series, he scored 67 and formed a 92-run partnership with Gundappa Viswanath which helped India take first innings lead. In the third Test at the Oval, he returned figures of 3/28 in the first innings, scored 44 runs, and took two catches, thereby played an important part in India's win. In the 1972-73 home series against England, he scored 75 in the first Test at Delhi. He took 12 catches in the five-Test series. He did not play well against England in the away series of 1974, but dismissed Geoffrey Boycott in three successive innings (India vs Yorkshire and India vs MCC - first class fixtures). He scored his only Test century against the West Indies in Mumbai in 1975. Apart from his 53 catches in 27 Tests, he made 1,068 runs at an average of 25.42 and claimed 18 wickets at an average of 59.44.[1] In the 16 years of his first-class cricket career, he scored 6,851 runs at an average of 29.27, including eight centuries, took 276 wickets at an average of 30.01 and took 190 catches.[1] In Test Cricket, his job as bowler was to bowl 4-5 overs to take the shine off the new ball as much as possible before the Indian spinners took over. For Mumbai's Ranji team he formed an opening bowlers' tandem with Abdul Ismail. In the 1973 Ranji final, he bowled off-breaks on a notorious turner and took 5 wickets to help Mumbai to a famous victory in a match dominated by the spin bowling of Venkat, V. V. Kumar, and Shivalkar."
"A surgical strike is a military attack which results in, was intended to result in, or is claimed to have resulted in only damage to the intended legitimate military target, and no or minimal collateral damage to surrounding structures, vehicles, buildings, or the general public infrastructure and utilities.[1]"
"Precision bombing is an example of a surgical strike carried out by aircraft – it can be contrasted against carpet bombing, the latter which results in high collateral damage and a wide range of destruction over an affected area which may or may not include high civilian casualties. The bombing of Baghdad during the initial stages of the 2003 Iraq War by US forces, known as Shock and Awe is an example of a coordinated surgical strike, where government buildings and military targets were systematically attacked by US aircraft in an attempt to cripple the Ba'athist controlled Iraqi government under Saddam Hussein."
Point targets
Surgical strike
Documentaries
"Michelle Bachelet - Symbol des neuen Chile (Ebbo Demant/SWR, 2004)[148] La hija del General [""The General's Daughter""] (María Elena Wood/2006)[149]"
Publications
"Bachelet, Michelle. 2002. Los estudios comparados y la relación civil-militar. ""Reflexiones tras una década de consolidación democrática en Chile"", Revista Fuerzas Armadas y Sociedad, 17(4): 29-35."
"Verónica Michelle Bachelet Jeria (Spanish pronunciation: [beˈɾonika miˈtʃel βatʃeˈle ˈxeɾja]; born 29 September 1951) is a Chilean Socialist Party politician who has served as the President of Chile since 11 March 2014. She previously served as President from 2006 to 2010, becoming the first woman in her country to do so. After leaving the presidency and while not immediately re-electable, she was appointed the first executive director of the newly created United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women). In December 2013, Bachelet was re-elected as President of Chile with over 62% of the vote, bettering the 53.5% she obtained in 2006. She is the first person since 1932 to win the presidency of Chile twice in competitive elections.[1]"
"Bachelet, a physician with studies in military strategy, served as Health Minister and Defense Minister under her predecessor, President Ricardo Lagos. She is a separated mother of three and describes herself as an agnostic.[2] Aside from her native Spanish, she also speaks, with varying levels of fluency, English, German, Portuguese and French.[3][4]"
E. aureum with larger leaves
"Epipremnum aureum is a species of flowering plant in the family of Araceae, native in Mo'orea, French Polynesia. The species is a popular houseplant in temperate regions, but has also become naturalised in tropical and sub-tropical forests worldwide, including northern Australia, Southeast Asia, India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Hawaii and the West Indies,[2][3] where it has caused severe ecological damage in some cases."
Epipremnum aureum
"Irom Chanu Sharmila (born 14 March 1972),[1] also known as the ""Iron Lady""[2] or ""Mengoubi"" (""the fair one"")[3] is a civil rights activist, political activist, and poet from the Indian state of Manipur. On 2 November 2000,[4] she began a hunger strike which she ended on 9 August 2016, after 16 years of fasting. Having refused food and water for more than 500 weeks, she has been called ""the world's longest hunger striker"".[5] On International Women’s Day, 2014 she was voted the top woman icon of India by MSN Poll.[6][7]"
"In 2014 two parties asked her to stand in the national election, but she declined. She was then denied the right to vote as a person confined in jail cannot vote according to law.[8][9][10] On 19 August 2014 a court ordered her release from custody, subject to there being no other grounds for detention. She was re-arrested on 22 August 2014 on similar charges to those for which she was acquitted, and remanded in judicial custody for 15 days.[11] Amnesty International has declared her as a prisoner of conscience."
Books
Fragrance of Peace (2010)
"Vishwanath Pratap Singh (25 June 1931 – 27 November 2008), Indian politician and government official, was the Prime Minister of India (1989–90) and the 41st nominal Raja Bahadur (ruler) of the northern kingdom of Manda."
Early career
"Singh was born in the Rajput zamindar (traditional landlord) family ruling the kingdom of Manda on 25 June 1931.[4] He obtained his education from Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehra Dun and studied at Allahabad and Pune universities.[5]"
Singh became a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh in 1969 as a member of the Indian National Congress (Congress Party). He won election to the Lok Sabha in 1971 and was appointed a Deputy Minister of Commerce by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1974. He served as the Minister of Commerce in 1976–77.[6]
V. P. Singh
Personal life
"Singh married Princess Sita Kumari, the daughter of the Raja of Deogarh-Madaria, Rajasthan, on 25 June 1955. It was an arranged marriage. He was 24 (He turned 24 on that day), and she was 18. Kumari was a Sisodia Rajput descended from Rana Pratap of Udaipur. The couple had two sons. Ajay Singh (born 1957) is a chartered accountant in New York, and Abhai Singh (born 1958) is a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi.[53]"
"Neena Gupta is an Assistant Professor at the Statistics and Mathematics Unit of the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), Kolkata. Her primary fields of interest are commutative algebra and affine algebraic geometry. Gupta was previously a visiting scientist at the ISI and a visiting fellow at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR)."
"Gupta graduated with honours in Mathematics from Bethune College in 2006. She earned her Post Graduation in Mathematics from the ISI in 2008[1] and subsequently, her Ph.D. degree in 2011 with algebraic geometry as her specialization, under the guidance of Professor Amartya Kumar Dutta.[2] Gupta's Ph.D. dissertation was ""Some Results on Laurent Polynomial Fibrations and Quasi A* Algebras""[3]"
"Gupta received the Indian National Science Academy Young Scientist award in 2014[4] for the solution she proposed to the Zariski Cancellation Problem[5] in positive characteristic. Her work on the conjecture had also earned her the inaugural Saraswathi Cowsik Medal in 2013, awarded by the TIFR Alumni Association.[6]"
Haradanahalli Doddegowda Deve Gowda (born 18 May 1933)[2][4] is an Indian politician who was the Prime Minister of India from June 1996 to April 1997.[5] Previously he was the 14th Chief Minister of Karnataka from 1994 to 1996.
"He is a member of the 16th Lok Sabha representing the Hassan constituency of Karnataka, is the National President of the Janata Dal (Secular) party, and enjoys strong support in the Vokkaliga community which is at the forefront of the state politics.[6]"
Early life and education
"Deve Gowda was born on 18 May 1933 in Haradanahalli village of Holenarasipura taluk, Hassan District, Karnataka in a Vokkaliga caste family, which is categorised as an Other Backward Class by the Indian government.[7][8][9][10][11] He earned his Diploma in Civil Engineering from Smt. L. V. Polytechnic, Hassan, Karnataka.[1] He married Chennamma and the couple have four sons and two daughters.[3]"
Political career
"Gowda joined the Indian National Congress party in 1953 and remained a member until 1962.[14] During that period, he was the President of Anjaneya Cooperative Society of Holenarasipura and later became a member of the Taluk Development Board, Holenarasipura taluk, Hassan."
"In 1962, Deve Gowda was elected to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly from Holenarasipura constituency as an independent candidate. Later, he was elected from the same constituency to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly for six consecutive terms from 1962 to 1989. He joined the Congress(O) during the Congress split and served as the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly from March 1972 to March 1976 and again from November 1976 to December 1977.[15] During the Emergency (1975–77), he was imprisoned in the Bangalore Central Jail."
Deve Gowda was twice the President of state unit of the Janata Party. He served as a minister in the Janata Party Government in Karnataka headed by Shri Ramakrishna Hegde from 1983 to 1988. He became President of the state unit of Janata Dal in 1994 and was the driving force behind the victory of the party in the 1994 State Assembly elections. He was elected from the Ramanagara constituency sworn in as the 14th Chief Minister of Karnataka in December 1994.
"In the 1996 general elections, the Congress party headed by P.V. Narasimha Rao lost decisively but no other party won enough seats to form a government. When the United Front (a conglomeration of non-Congress and non-BJP regional parties) decided to form the Government at the Centre with the support of the Congress, Deve Gowda was unexpectedly chosen to head the government and became the 12th Prime Minister of India.[6] He took over as Prime Minister of India on 1 June 1996 and continued until 11 April 1997. Also, he was the Chairman of the Steering Committee of the United Front, the policy making apex body of all the constituents of the ruling front.[6]"
"1962–89 : Member, Karnataka Legislative Assembly (seven terms)"
"1972–76 : Leader of Opposition, Karnataka Legislative Assembly"
1991 : Elected to 10th Lok Sabha
1994–96 : Chief Minister of Karnataka
"Jun. 1996 – Apr. 1997 : Prime Minister of India and also in charge of Ministries/Departments of Petroleum and Chemicals, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Atomic Energy, Home Affairs, Agriculture, Food Processing Industries, Urban Affairs and Employment and Non-Conventional Energy Sources"
H. D. Deve Gowda
"Madan Lal Udhouram Sharma[1]  pronunciation (help·info) (Punjabi ਮਦਨ ਲਾਲ, Hindi मदन लाल and Urdu مدن لال ادی رام شرما ) born 20 March 1951 in Amritsar, Punjab is a former Indian cricketer (1974–1987) and Indian national cricket coach. He was also a member of the World Cup winning Indian squad of 1983."
Playing career
"Madan Lal enjoyed outstanding all-round success at first-class level scoring 10,204 runs (av 42.87), including 22 hundreds, also capturing 625 wickets (av 25.50). He had a side-on bowling action."
"He played 39 Test matches for India, scoring 1,042 runs at an average of 22.65, taking 71 wickets at 40.08 and holding 15 catches. He was a fairly competent lower order batsman, often extricating the Indian team from tricky situations which earned him the nickname, Maddat Lal by grateful Indian fans."
Coaching career
"In his retirement, Madan Lal has been actively involved in the game in various capacities. Madan Lal coached the UAE team[3] for 1996 Cricket World Cup. Madan Lal had a stint as India's national cricket coach between September 1996 and September 1997[4]"
Political career
"In March 2009, the Indian National Congress decided to field Madan Lal as their candidate for the Hamirpur Parliamentary constituency bye elections in Himachal Pradesh. Madan Lal was chosen to contest the bye elections against Anurag Thakur, son of the Himachal Pradesh BJP leader, Prem Kumar Dhumal.[7]"
Acting career
"In April 2013, Madan Lal came on a crime show called Hum Ne Li Hai- Shapath on Life OK at 9 pm."
"Amol Palekar (born 24 November 1944) is an Indian actor, director and producer of Hindi and Marathi cinema.[4]"
Career
Theatre journey
Movie career
Palekar in 2016
Arundhati Virmani (born 1957) is an Indian historian. She was a reader in history at Delhi University until 1992. She teaches at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales in Marseille.
Published works
"Known for her 2008 book, A National Flag for India. Rituals, Nationalism, and the Politics of Sentiment, about which noted writer Khushwant Singh wrote: ""She has done meticulous research on the subject and put life into what may appear at first sight as a footnote in a book on Indian history."".[9][10]"
"L'Inde, une puissance en mutation, Paris, La Documentation française, 2001 India, 1900-1947. Un Britannique au cœur du Raj, Paris, Autrement, 2002 (about Sir Malcolm Darling (1880–1969), a famous British administrator in India, specialist of land reform and cooperative movement) « A National Affair : Nude Bharatmata,"" Passato e Presente, 2006, n°76 « Roman de voyage, récit de voyage. L’Inde de Jules Verne, de Pierre Loti et d’Edward M. Forster », 2006, in Alain Guillemain (ed.), A la recherche du meilleur des mondes. Littérature et sciences sociales, Paris, Harmattan « Réflexions d’une hindoue convertie au christianisme : Pandita Ramabai (1858-1922) et l’hindouisme », in Daniel Tollet (ed.), La religion que j’ai quittée, Paris, Presses de l’Université Paris-Sorbonne, 2007 “The Place of Religious Identity in a Modern Nation State – Three Indian Responses”, Annuaire de Droits et de Religion, juillet 2008 A National Flag for India. Rituals, Nationalism, and the Politics of Sentiment, New Delhi, Permanent Black, 2008. ISBN 81-7824-232-X. Atlas historique de l'Inde : du VIe siècle av. J.-C. au XXIe siècle, Paris, Autrement, 2012. Political Aesthetics : Culture, Critique and the Everyday, New-York, Routledge, 2015. Translation of Edward P. Thompson, Les usages de la coutume. Traditions et résistances populaires en Angleterre, XVIIe-XIXe siècles, Paris, coll. Hautes Études, Le Seuil-Gallimard-Éditions de l’École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, 2015 (with Jean Boutier) Les Indiens. Voix multiples, Paris, Ateliers Henry Dougier, 2016. ISBN 979-10-93594-18-7 (Prize ""Asia"" 2015 of the Association of Francophone Writers (Association des Ecrivains de Langue Française-ADELF) [11]"
"Tu Youyou (Chinese: 屠呦呦; pinyin: Tú Yōuyōu; born 30 December 1930) is a Chinese pharmaceutical chemist and educator. She is best known for discovering artemisinin (also known as qinghaosu) and dihydroartemisinin, used to treat malaria, which saved millions of lives. Her discovery of artemisinin and its treatment of malaria is regarded as a significant breakthrough of tropical medicine in the 20th century and health improvement for people of tropical developing countries in South Asia, Africa, and South America. For her work, Tu received the 2011 Lasker Award in clinical medicine and the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine jointly with William C. Campbell and Satoshi Ōmura. Tu is the first Chinese Nobel laureate in physiology or medicine and the first female citizen of the People's Republic of China to receive a Nobel Prize in any category, as well as the first Chinese person to receive the Lasker Award. She was born and educated and carried out research exclusively in China.[3]"
"Tiger dance at Pilikula,India"
"Tiger dance of Kamaishi, Iwate, performed on the street in Kitakami Michinoku Traditional Dance Festival, Kitakami, Iwate"
"Tiger dance of Kamaishi, Iwate, performed in the lobby of a hotel, Kitakami, Iwate"
Tiger dance is a traditional performing art in which persons wearing tiger costumes dance by themselves or with others.
India
Puliyattam is folk dance of Dravidian people Puliyattam - Tamil nadu Pilivesa - Karnataka and Tulu Nadu Puli Kali - Kerala Baagh Naach - Odisha
"Baagh Naach of Subarnapur district, Orissa and Newa People of Nepal"
Japan
"Tiger dance of Kamaishi, Iwate [1] Tiger dance of Ōfunato, Iwate [2] Tiger dance of Yokosuka, Kanagawa [3]"
"Karma dance or Karma Naach is a tribal dance. The Karma dance is a tribal community dance performed by the Gonds,Binjahal, Kharia, Oraon, Kisan and Kol and other tribal annually during the karma festival. Karma is a famous autumnal festival, it starts from the 11th day of the bright fortnight of the month of Bhadrab. It is performed in the tribal dominant areas of Western Orissa, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Karma means 'fate'. This folk dance is performed during the worship of the god of fate which is known as Karam Devta. People consider the god of fate as the cause of good and bad fortune.[1]"
Karma Naach
"Hathigumpha inscription. From the Archaeological Survey of India Collections, taken by William Henry Cornish in c.1892."
"Hathigumpha on Udayagiri Hills, Bhubaneswar"
Hathigumpha inscription (ହାତୀଗୁମ୍ଫା) of King Khāravela at Udayagiri Hills
"Hathigumpha inscription of King Khāravela at Udayagiri Hills as first drawn in ""Corpus Inscriptionum Indicarum, Volume I: Inscriptions of Asoka by Alexander Cunningham"", 1827"
"The Hathigumpha Inscription (""Elephant Cave"" inscription), from Udayagiri, near Bhubaneswar in Odisha, was inscribed by Kharavela, the then Emperor of Kalinga in India, during 2nd century BCE. The Hathigumpha Inscription consists of seventeen lines in a Central-Western form of Prakrit incised in a deep-cut Brahmi script on the overhanging brow of a natural cavern called Hathigumpha in the southern side of the Udayagiri hill, near Bhubaneswar in Odisha. It faces straight towards the Rock Edicts of Ashoka at Dhauli, situated at a distance of about six miles."
"The inscription is written in a type which is considered as one of the most archaic forms of the Kalinga alphabet, also suggesting a date around 150 BCE.[1]"
"The inscription is dated 13th year of Kharavela's reign, which has been dated variously by scholars from the second century BCE[2] to the first century CE.[3][4][3]"
Salient features
The Hathigumpha inscription starts with a version of the auspicious Jain Namokar Mantra: नमो अरहंतानं [॥] णमो सवसिधानं [॥] for in Jainism.
The Hathigumpha Inscription mentions that:[6]
See also
References
"Durgavati Devi (Durga Bhabhi) (7 October 1907 – 15 October 1999) was an Indian revolutionary and a freedom fighter. She was one of the few women revolutionaries who actively participated in armed revolution against the ruling British Raj. She is best known for having accompanied Bhagat Singh on the train journey in which he made his escape in disguise after the Saunders killing,[1] Since she was the wife of Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA) member Bhagwati Charan Vohra, other members of HSRA referred to her as Bhabhi (elder brother's wife) and became popular as ""Durga Bhabhi"" in Indian revolutionary circles. Durgavati Devi was a Bengali woman and her mother tongue was Bengali."
Life
Durgavati Devi was married to Bhagwati Charan Vohra when she was aged eleven.
"An active member of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, Devi came into prominence when the Sabha decided to observe the 11th anniversary of Kartar Singh Sarabha’s martyrdom on 16 November 1926 in Lahore. Devi was instrumental in assisting Bhagat Singh and Shivaram Rajguru escape after the killing of J. P. Saunders."
"She led the funeral procession of Jatindra Nath Das from Lahore to Calcutta after his death in the 63-day jail hunger strike. All along the way, huge crowds joined the funeral procession.[1]"
Later life
"Unlike other freedom fighters, after Indian independence Durga started living as a common citizen in quite anonymity and exclusion in Ghaziabad. She later opened a school for poor children in Lucknow. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru visited her school in 1956."
Durga died in Ghaziabad on 15 October 1999 at the age of 92.
Durgawati Devi
Judo is a sport which is widely played in India. The first written record about Judo in India in Kodokan is about demonstrations and coaching of Judo by Shinzo Tagaki arranged at Shantiniketan in 1929 by Rabindranath Tagore.[1] The Judo Federation of India was formed in 1965.
"By 1970, the judo community was increased to a sizeable chunk in India and JFI became hard-pressed to hire more professional trainers for the sport of judo from within India. A large number of coaches were required from within the country as trainers from abroad were not able to meet the training needs of a large and growing judo community. Mr. Takashi Ogata came to India on a welcome visit in 1976, and initiated a professional course in judo at NS NIS, Patiala. Another honorable Japanese judo guru Mr. Morio Suganami graced the judo community in India by his 1979 visit, and gave tips and laid some action plans for the promotion of judo in India. The contribution of Indian gentlemen such as Mr. Khaniwale, Dr. Pisolkar and Mr. N.T. Bangera to the sport of judo is exemplary and memorable."
"Indian minister and president of JFI, Mr. Jagdish Tytler and ex-general secretary Mr. L.K. Daga also devised some action plans to boost the participation of Indian judo teams at the international events. At last, India got its much needed break in 1986 Seoul Asian Games, where Indians successfully bagged four bronze medals for their country. It was a milestone for the team India and since then, India has been performing continuously at the international judo events."
"Several Indian judokas have qualified for the Olympic Games. Mr. Sandeep Byala and Mr. Cawas Billimoria participated in 1992 Barcelona Olympics. Ms. Brojeshwori Devi successfully qualified for the Athens Olympics 2000. : Mr. Akram Shah participated in Sydney Olympics 2004, on behalf of India. Ms. Kh. Tombi Devi & Ms. Diviya qualified for Beijing Olympics 2008."
"Mr. Sandeep Byala, Mr. Cawas Kersap Billimoria, Mr. Akram Shah, Ms. Angom Anita Chanu, Mr. Narender Singh, Ms. Poonam Chopra, and Ms. Khumujam Tombi Devi received the prestigious Arjuna Award for their exemplary performances. In London Olympics 2012, recently, India's only qualifier Garima Chaudhary lost to Japanese Judoka, Yoshie Ueno in the women's 63 kg category elimination round. Japanese team reigned in London Olympics 2012, in judo and they won the gold, silver and bronze medals."
"In the 2010 Judo World Cup in Tashkent, Thoudam Kalpana Devi of Manipur became the first Indian to win a World Cup top-three finish.[2]"
See also
External links
"Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary (Odia: କର୍ଲାପାଟ୍;Hindi: कर्लापाट्) is a wildlife sanctuary located in Kalahandi district and a very popular tourist attraction of Odisha in India.[1] Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary is about 35 km from Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi district."
The sanctuary covers an area of 255 km².[2] It lies within the Eastern Highlands moist deciduous forests ecoregion.[3] Major plant communities include mixed deciduous forests and scrublands.[4]
Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary
"Ghatgaon, also known as Ghatgan, is a developing town in Kendujhar District, Odisha, India."
It is located at 21°24′0″N 85°53′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.40000°N 85.88333°E﻿ / 21.40000; 85.88333 at an elevation of 330 m above MSL.[1]
National Highway 215 passes through Ghatgan. Nearest airport is Biju Patnaik Airport at Bhubaneswar.
Maa Tarini Temple: It is the main shrine of Maa Tarini who is regarded as the embodiments of Shakti. She is one of the chief presiding Goddess in Odia culture. Every year thousands of devotees visit the temple to worship Maa Tarini.
Koili Ghoghar
"Koilighugar Waterfall is in Jharsuguda district, Odisha, India.[1]"
"From Gobindpur Chowk in National Highway 200, which is between Jharsuguda and Raigarh, take a right turn. A 6 km (3.7 mi) drive from there through thick śāl and mahua forests will take one to Koilighugar Waterfall. Gobindpur is 20 km (12 mi) from Belpahar."
"The Koilighugar Waterfall, around 200 ft (61 m) in height, is in the Lakhanpur, near the village Kushmelbahal. The waterfall is in a rivulet named Ahiraj which originates from the 'Chhuikhanch' forest. After the waterfall, the rivulet flows westwards to merge into the Mahanadi river. It is a picturesque beauty spot with its sylvan backdrop."
"Inside the fall there is a Shivalingam known as Maheswarnath. The lingam is submerged in water and is not ordinarily visible. For the benefit of the pilgrims, another Shivalingam has been created outside the waterfall."
Koilighugar has an annual fair on the occasion of Sivaratri.
"Karsan Devjibhai Ghavri  pronunciation (help·info) (born 28 February 1951, Rajkot, Gujarat) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 39 Tests and 19 ODIs from 1974 to 1981. He played in the 1975 and 1979 World Cups."
"Ghavri was a left-arm fast-medium pace bowler, with a long run-up and a high leaping action. He could also produce quickish but accurate left-arm finger spin. Altogether he took 109 Test wickets, including four five-wicket hauls. With the bat he was usually found in the lower order but managed a couple of Test half centuries including a career best 86 against Australia in Bombay. By the time he was dismissed he had made a record eighth-wicket partnership of 127 with Syed Kirmani. His 86 came of just 99 balls which contained 12 fours and 3 huge sixes. Syed Kirmani who was sent as a night watchman remained unbeaten with 101. India went on to win that Test match and also the series against Kim Hughes' Australian team."
"Despite making his debut in 1975, it wasn't until the season of 1976–77 that he cemented his spot in the side after series against New Zealand and England. He remained a regular member of the side until 1981. His most successful series came against the West Indies in 1978–79 with 27 wickets. One of his memorable spell came during India's tour of Australia in 1981 during second innings of the 3rd Test match of the series. On the 4th day of that match he got rid of Australia's opening batsman John Dyson and captain Greg Chappell in 2 successive deliveries which set up the stage for India's victory on the final day.[1] India won that match by 59 runs with Kapil Dev doing rest of the damage on the final day of the match."
He was Kapil Dev's bowling partner when the future Indian great made his debut in 1978 against Pakistan at Faisalabad.
Ghavri was eventually replaced by Madan Lal during the 1982 tour of England to India.
Karsan Ghavri
"Prakash Padukone (born 10 June 1955) is a former Indian badminton player from Karnataka who won numerous laurels for his country in the field of badminton. He was awarded the Arjuna award in 1972 and the Padma Shri in 1982 by the government of India. He is one of the co-founders of Olympic Gold Quest, a foundation dedicated to the promotion of Olympic sports in India."
"When he was in his twenties, Padukona was married to Ujjwala, a lady belonging to his own community and to a family of similar background, in a match arranged by their parents in the usual Indian way. They were blessed with two daughters, namely Deepika Padukone, a Bollywood actress, and Anisha Padukone, a golfer.[5] Padokone, his wife and younger daughter Anisha reside in Bangalore, whereas Deepika, the actress, lives and works in Mumbai."
"Prakash was initiated into the game by his father Ramesh Padukone, who was the Secretary of the ""Mysore Badminton Association"" for many years."
"Padukone's first official tournament was the Karnataka state junior championship in 1962. Though he lost in the very first round, two years later he managed to win the state junior title. He changed his playing style into a more aggressive style in 1971, and won the Indian national junior title in 1972. He also won the senior title the same year. He won the National title consecutively for the next seven years. In 1978, he won his first major international title, the men's singles gold medal at the 1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, Canada.[6] In 1979, he won the ""Evening of Champions"" at the Royal Albert Hall, London."
Other services
"After his retirement from competitive sports in 1991, Padukone served as the chairman of the Badminton Association of India for a short while. He also served as the coach of the Indian national badminton team from 1993 to 1996."
Olympic gold quest
"After retirement, Padukone has sought to mentor budding young players and help them achieve glory for the country. He runs the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy and, along with Geet Sethi, he is a co-founder of Olympic Gold Quest, a foundation dedicated to the promotion of Olympic sports in India."
Prakash Padukone
"Sambalpur Railway Station, located in the Indian state of Odisha, serves Sambalpur in Sambalpur district. There are four other railway stations serving Sambalpur – Sambalpur Road Railway Station(SBPD), Sambalpur City Railway Station(SBPY), Hirakud (HKG), across the Mahanadi and Maneswar Railway Station(MANE). Locally this station is called Khetrajpur Railway Station since it is located in that area of the city."
"In 1960, Indian Railway took up three projects: the Kottavalasa-Koraput-Jeypore-Kirandaul line (Dandakaranya Project), the Titlagarh-Bolangir-Jharsuguda Project and the Rourkela-Kiriburu Project. All the three projects taken together were popularly known as the DBK Project or the Dandakaranya Bolangir Kiriburu Project.[1] The Sambalpur-Titlagarh line was opened to traffic in 1963.[2]"
The Sambalpur-Talcher line was sanctioned in 1983 and was completed in 1998.[3]
Railway Organization
Sambalpur Railway station is functioning under Sambalpur Division of East Coast Railway.
Doubling
"Doubling of Talcher-Sambalpur, Sambalpur-Jharsuguda and Sambalpur-Titlagarh has been sanctioned and work is in progress.[4]"
Electrification
"Electrification of the Titlagarh–Sambalpur-Jharsuguda and Angul-Sambalpur sections were sanctioned in the Railway Budget for 2012-13.[5]Work of doubling and electrification between Sambalpur and Angul is in progress. In September 2015, the route has been electrified from Angul to Kerejanga and the work is expected to be completed in the upcoming 5 years."
Amenities
"Sambalpur railway station has a four-bedded dormitory.[6] Other amenities at the railway station include computerized reservation offices, telephone booth, cloak room, waiting room and book stall.[7]"
Passenger movement
4 trains originate at Sambalpur and 36 trains (including weeklies and bi-weeklies) pass through this station.[8]
"Sambalpur railway station serves around 99,000 passengers every day.[9]"
Expansion of and requirement of new trains
Awards and honors
Arjuna Award – 1999
TEST cricket
Player of The Match honors
Javagal Srinath  pronunciation (help·info) (born 31 August 1969) is an Indian former cricketer and current ICC Match Referee. He is considered among India's finest fast bowlers and remains the only Indian fast bowler to have taken more than 300 wickets in One Day Internationals.[1]
"He was a frontline fast bowler for the Indian cricket team until his retirement, being the second Indian pace bowler after Kapil Dev to take 200 Test wickets."
"Srinath was born in Mysuru district, Karnataka. He was attracted towards cricket right from an early age. He holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in Instrumentation Technology from Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering (SJCE), Mysuru."
"Bapu Krishnarao Venkatesh Prasad  pronunciation (help·info) (born 5 August 1969 in Bangalore, Karnataka)[1] is a former Indian cricketer. He is the bowling coach for Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League, having formerly performed the same role for the Indian cricket team from 2007 to 2009. He made his debut in 1996. Primarily a right-arm medium-fast bowler, Prasad was noted for his bowling combination with Javagal Srinath."
Cricket career
"Prasad took 96 wickets from 33 Tests at an average of 35, and 196 wickets from 161 ODIs at an average of 32.3. Prasad was more effective on wickets that helped seam bowling even though his best Test bowling figures of 6 for 33, achieved against Pakistan in the 1999 Test series in India, came on a docile pitch in Chennai; these figures included a spell of bowling in which he took 5 wickets for 0 runs. Notably, he once took 10 wickets in a Test match in Durban, South Africa, in December 1996. It remains his only ten wicket haul in Test cricket. Prasad also took five wicket hauls in England, in 1996, in Sri Lanka, in 2001, and in the West Indies, in 1997. Prasad played his final Test match in Sri Lanka in 2001. One of his finest moments came in 1996 Cricket World Cup when after being hit for a boundary and openly sledged by Pakistan batsman Aamir Sohail, Prasad clean bowled Sohail the very next ball, (which many consider the turning point of the match). Prasad was known for his slower deliveries and was one of its first proponents in world cricket.[2]"
Venkatesh Prasad is married to Jayanthi Prasad. They have a son named Prithvi. [4]
1996/97: Ceat International Cricketer of the Year[5] 2000: Arjuna Award[6]
Test Matches
10 Wickets in a Match:
ODI Matches
ODI Matches - Man of the Match Awards:
TV career
Awards and nominations
References
"Kanwarjit Paintal, better known as Paintal, born in a Sikh family, started off as an Indian comic actor and moved on to teaching the art of acting. He has extensively worked not only in numerous movies but also television."
Filmography
Bollywood films
"Gufi Paintal is an Indian actor who appeared in some notable Bollywood movies in 1980s, as well as television serials and plays. His brother Kanwarjit Paintal and his nephew Hiten Paintal are also actors. He was born in a Sikh Family."
"Initially trained as an engineer, he would go on to follow his younger brother (who had been trained at the Film and Television Institute of India) into acting. Arriving in Bombay in 1969 and Gufi took up modeling, worked as an assistant director for movies and acted in various movies and serials. He has also directed his brother. His most well-known role is that of Mama (Maternal Uncle) Shakuni in the Mahabharat adaptation by B.R. Chopra and his son Ravi Chopra which Paintal himself recognizes as his best role.[1] Indeed, he is so associated with his Shakuni character in India that Paintal presented a political discussion show on the news channel Sahara Samay in the character of Shakuni.[2]"
"Paintal has recently directed the movie, Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu which sketches the life of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, a 16th-century devotee of Krishna who is recognised as an incarnation of the god by followers of Gaudiya Vaishnavism. The film was produced by Pawan Kumar with music by Ravindra Jain.[3] In 2010 he was appointed head of facility at the Abbhinnay Acting Academy in Mumbai, a school established by his Mahabharata co-star Pankaj Dheer.[4][5]"
Filmography
TV series
"The Kakori Conspiracy (or Kakori train robbery or Kakori Case) was a train robbery that took place between Kakori and , near Lucknow, on 9 August 1925 during the Indian Independence Movement against the British Indian Government. The robbery was organised by the Hindustan Republican Association (HRA)."
Photo of German made Mauser pistol. Four Mausers were used by the Indian freedom fighters.
"The robbery was conceived by Ram Prasad Bismil and Ashfaqullah Khan who belonged to the HRA, which later became the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association. This organisation was established to carry out revolutionary activities against the British Empire in India with the objective of achieving independence. Since the organisation needed money for purchase of weaponry, Bismil and his party decided to plunder a train on one of the Northern Railway lines.[1] The robbery plan was executed by Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqulla Khan, Rajendra Lahiri, Chandrashekhar Azad, Sachindra Bakshi, Keshab Chakravarty, Manmathnath Gupta, Murari Lal Khanna (fake name of Murari Lal Gupta), Mukundi Lal (Mukundi Lal Gupta) and Banwari Lal.[2][3] One passenger was killed by an accidental shot."
Robbery
"On 9 August 1925, the Number 8 Down Train travelling from Shahjahanpur to Lucknow was approaching the town of Kakori (now in Uttar Pradesh), when one of the revolutionaries pulled the chain to stop the train and overpowered the guard. It is believed[by whom?] that they looted that specific train because train was supposed to carry the money-bags belonging to the British Government Treasury in the guard's cabin. One passenger was killed by an accidental shot, making it a murder case. They looted only these bags containing some 8,000 Rupees and escaped to Lucknow while not a single Indian was looted, because the targets of the mission were:"
"Following the incident, the British administration started an intense manhunt and arrested several of the revolutionaries involved in the HRA. Their leader, Ram Prasad Bismil, was arrested at Saharanpur on 26 September 1925, and his lieutenant, Ashfaqullah Khan, was arrested ten months later at Delhi."
Arrests
Forty people[4] were arrested from all over India. Their names with the places of arrest are:
Kakori trial
"Ram Prasad Bismil and some others were charged with various offences, including robbery and murder. Fifteen people had been released due to lack of evidence and a further five had absconded. Two of the absconders – Ashfaqullah Khan and Sachindra Bakshi – were captured after the trial, while one of the others, Chandrasekhar Azad, reorganised the HRA in 1928 and shot himself on 27 February 1931 at Chandrasekhar Azad Park, Allahabad.[5]"
Final verdict
The punishments given were as follows:[6]
"Death sentence: Ram Prasad Bismil, Thakur Roshan Singh, Rajendra Nath Lahiri and Ashfaqullah Khan Deportation to Kālā Pānī (Port Blair cellular jail) : Shachindra Nath Sanyal and Sachindra Bakshi 14 years imprisonment: Manmath Nath Gupta 10 years imprisonment: Yogesh Chandra Chatterjee, Mukundi Lal, Govid Charan Kar, Raj Kumar Singh and Ram Krishna Khatri 7 years imprisonment: Vishnu Charan Dublish, Suresh Charan Bhattacharya 5 years imprisonment: Bhupen Nath Sanyal, Prem Krishna Sharma 4 years imprisonment: Keshab Chakravarthy"
"Paras Laxmikant Mhambrey  pronunciation (help·info) (Marathi: पारस लक्ष्मीकांत म्हांब्रे; born 20 June 1972), Mumbai, Maharashtra) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 2 Tests and 3 ODIs from 1996 to 1998."
"Mhambrey made his debut against England at Edgbaston as a third seamer in 1996 and picked up as his first wicket Michael Atherton, however he could not do much with the ball and ended up with only 2 wickets in his only series."
Mhambery secured a Level-3 coaching diploma from the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bangalore.
"He was the coach of the cricket team of Bengal in Indian domestic circuit and took them to the finals of the Ranji Trophy, after a gap of 16 years. He was also the coach of Baroda. He is also currently the assistant coach of the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League. He was also selected as the overseas player for North Maidenhead CC."
Paras Mhambrey
"Joyanti Chutia is an Indian physicist. She was the amongst the first women who have headed scientific institutions in India when she became the Director of the Institute of Advanced Study in Science and Technology in Guwahati, Assam the first major research institution in North East India.[1][2] She is a fellow of National Academy of Sciences. She is an Emeritus Scientist at the Department of Science & Technology in the Government of India [3][4][5][6]"
Early life and education
"Joyanti became deeply involved in physics when she was a student in the prestigious Cotton College in Assam. After finishing her fellowship given by the Japanese Government in 1988 to work in the Plasma Laboratory of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, Tokyo, in 2005 she became the Director of the Institute of Advanced Study in Science and Technology.[7][8][9][10] [11][12]"
Obituaries
"Cecilia Helena Payne-Gaposchkin (May 10, 1900 – December 7, 1979) was a British–American astronomer and astrophysicist who, in 1925, proposed in her Ph.D. thesis an explanation for the composition of stars in terms of the relative abundances of hydrogen and helium.[1]"
"Charusita Chakravarty (1964 - 2016) was an Indian academic and scientist. She was a professor of Chemistry at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi since 1999. In 2009 she was conferred Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology in the field of Chemical Science. In 1999, she received B.M. Birla Science Award.[1][2] She was an Associate Member of the Centre for Computational Material Science, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore.[3]"
Selected publications
Here is a list of selected publications and collaborative research works where Chakravarty has worked—[2]
Other sources
Autobiographical article by Charusita Chakravarty in Lilavati's Daughters
Aditi Pant is an Indian oceanographer.[1] She was a part of the Indian expedition to Antarctica in 1983 and became the first Indian woman to visit Antarctica (along with Sudipta Sengupta).[2]
"The Bangladesh Liberation War[lower-alpha 1] (Bengali: মুক্তিযুদ্ধ Muktijuddho), also known as the Bangladesh War of Independence, or simply the Liberation War in Bangladesh, was a revolution and armed conflict sparked by the rise of the Bengali nationalist and self-determination movement in East Pakistan and the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. It resulted in the independence of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The war began after the Pakistani military junta based in West Pakistan launched Operation Searchlight against the people of East Pakistan on the night of 25 March 1971. It pursued the systematic elimination of nationalist Bengali civilians, students, intelligentsia, religious minorities and armed personnel. The junta annulled the results of the 1970 elections and arrested Prime Minister-elect Sheikh Mujibur Rahman."
"The Bangladeshi Declaration of Independence was proclaimed from Chittagong by members of the Mukti Bahini – the national liberation army formed by Bengali military, paramilitary and civilians. The East Bengal Regiment and the East Pakistan Rifles played a crucial role in the resistance. Led by General M. A. G. Osmani and eleven sector commanders, the Bangladesh Forces waged a mass guerrilla war against the Pakistani military. They liberated numerous towns and cities in the initial months of the conflict. The Pakistan Army regained momentum in the monsoon. Bengali guerrillas carried out widespread sabotage, including Operation Jackpot against the Pakistan Navy. The nascent Bangladesh Air Force flew sorties against Pakistani military bases. By November, the Bangladesh forces restricted the Pakistani military to its barracks during the night. They secured control of most parts of the countryside.[15]"
"India joined the war on 3 December 1971, after Pakistan launched preemptive air strikes on North India. The subsequent Indo-Pakistani War witnessed engagements on two war fronts. With air supremacy achieved in the eastern theatre and the rapid advance of the Allied Forces of Bangladesh and India, Pakistan surrendered in Dacca on 16 December 1971."
Background
"Map of the British Indian Empire in 1909 showing Muslim majority areas in green, including modern-day Bangladesh on the east and Pakistan on the west."
Bangladesh Liberation War
Suman Sahai is an Indian activist and the founder of Gene Campaign.
"Order of the Golden Ark, 2001[1] Borlaug Award, 2004[7] Padma Shri, 2011[8]"
"The Hindu goddess Varuni with her consort Varuna (left), the USS Varuna (1861) & USS Varuna (1943) (right)."
Legend
"According to the legend, the goddess Varuni was adopted by Varuna when she came out of the ocean, during the churning for amrita (immortal nectar). She represents the purifying nectar of immortality (amrita). She is also ""the agent of transcendent wisdom"" in Hindu mythology. In Hindu art, she is often depicted with her consort Varuna."
"Varaha (Sanskrit: वराह, ""boar"") is the avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu in the form of a boar. Varaha is listed as third in the Dashavatara, the ten principal avatars of Vishnu. When the demon Hiranyaksha stole the earth (personified as the goddess Bhudevi) and hid her in the primordial waters, Vishnu appeared as Varaha to rescue her. Varaha slew the demon and retrieved the Earth from the ocean, lifting it on his tusks, and restored Bhudevi to her place in the universe."
"Sudhir Sakharam Naik  pronunciation (help·info) (born 21 February 1945, in Bombay) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 3 Tests and 2 ODIs in 1974 in the Indian cricket team. A courageous right-hand opening batsman, Sudhir Naik went as one of the candidates for the opening batsman's slot on the 1974 tour of England. He did well in the first-class matches, scoring 730 runs (40.55) and forced his way into the team for the final Test at Edgbaston. Out for 4 in the first innings, Naik batted in gritty fashion in a losing cause in the second innings to top-score with 77. Back home he played in two more Tests against West Indies. This turned out to be his last season played for India."
"For Bombay, however, Naik did very well and in the Ranji Trophy he scored 2687 runs (40.10) with a highest score of 200 not out against Baroda in 1973-74. But perhaps Naik's biggest distinction was that he led Bombay to an unexpected Ranji Trophy triumph in 1970-71. It was a badly depleted side with the stars being away with the Indian team in the West Indies. But Naik making adroit use of the limited resources proved himself to be an astute captain."
"He has a much extensive and impressive career in the domestic Indian cricket in varied capacities of cricketer, coach and ground-curator."
"Beside playing for India, he also captained Bombay in the Ranji Trophy for several years. He remains active in the game as the coach at his own National Cricket Club, Mumbai which has produced star cricketers for India like Zaheer Khan and Wasim Jaffer and many like Rajesh Pawar, Raju Sutar and Paras Mhambrey who are past and present players for Mumbai."
Anshuman Dattajirao Gaekwad  pronunciation (help·info) (born 23 September 1952) is a former Indian cricketer and two-time Indian national cricket coach. He played in 40 Test matches and 15 One Day Internationals.
"Gaekwad was known for his defensive mindset against pace bowlers, which became a high priority when the West Indian pace bowlers dominated world cricket. He was nicknamed The Great Wall. He made his Test debut against the West Indies at Kolkata on 27 December 1974 and his last appearance in a Test match was against England at Kolkata itself on the last day of 1984. Being a right-handed batsman, Gaekwad scored 1985 runs from 40 Tests at an average of 30.07 with 2 centuries and 10 half centuries to his credit. He scored his highest Test score of 201 against Pakistan at Jalandhar in 1982–83. This innings, where he spent 671 minutes, is an example for his patient style and concentration."
"Anshuman Gaekwad worked for GSFC (Vadodara) after retiring from Cricket and got took early retirement in 2000. He is currently based in Vadodara, Gujarat, India."
Controversy
"It was agreed the film would be screened in Bangalore across 21 screens.[138] When both the versions were screened in more centres, the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) approached the court.[139] The film chamber banned the exhibition completely.[140] The Competition Commission of India (CCI), in an interim order, stayed the chamber ban and permitted Reliance Big Entertainment Limited (RBEL) to exhibit the film in 36 cinemas.[141] This order was to be in effect till 22 June 2010.[142][143]"
Reception
Critical response
"The film received positive to mixed reviews. Malathi Rangarajan of The Hindu called Ravanan a ""masterstroke"".[150] A. Srivathsan said that it was ""Rai's most genuine performance till date"".[151] Deepak Kumaar's review.[152] Hindustan Times review.[153] The CNN-IBN stated that ""The film is certainly not the best from Mani Ratnam's Madras Talkies, but it can't be dismissed as shabby. Even if this Raavanan has no shades of grey, overall the film falls under the greyish form of art from Mani Ratnam enterprises, and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan plays the strong woman who does not fear her kidnapper. Her performance is worth a mention but her male co-stars steal the show"".[154] IANS praises Mani Ratnam's style, but calls some of the performances ""inadequate"".[155] Twitch Film review.[156] Madurai Messenger review.[157] Rai's performance was also noted as a highlight of the film according to Rediff, with her performance placing her in a ""different league"" than other Bollywood actresses.[158] Indiaglitz praised the music, cast, dialogues and cinematography, but stated that the first half was ""an utter waste of film reels"".[159] The cinematography was called ""brilliant"" by Behindwoods, although they found a ""lack of 'Tamil' feel in the film and its music"".[160] Sify rated the film as above average and noted ""the film’s best-written role, Aishwarya Rai has made a sensational comeback as Ragini, is mesmeric and has come out with an award-winning performance. Prithviraj is the ideal foil for Vikram, and is good. The movie lacks the Mani Ratnam touch in the story and screenplay department, and has a wobbly first half, where the story just does not move. The last 10 minutes are the best part of this 2 hours 7 minutes film"".[161] Film critic Sudhish Kamath review.[162] On Rotten Tomatoes the film has a rating of 62% with 8 fresh and 5 rotten reviews.[163]"
Accolades
Raavanan was one among the films shortlisted for India's submission to the Academy Awards.[177][178] V. Manikandan was nominated for Best Cinematography award in the Asia Pacific Screen Awards (APSA).[179][180][181][182] The film was praised by Indian politician Muthuvel Karunanidhi.[183] The film was added to the Austrian Film Museum.[184][185][186][187] Peter Heins was nominated at the World Stunt Awards.[188][189][190][191]
"Raavanan (English: Ravana) is a 2010 Indian Tamil thriller film, co written, co produced, and directed by Mani Ratnam. The film features Vikram, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Prithviraj in the lead roles, with a supporting cast led by Karthik, Prabhu and Priyamani. The film was also made simultaneously in Hindi as Raavan, with a slightly different cast. Furthermore, the film was dubbed and released in Telugu as Villain, with all three versions releasing simultaneously on 18 June 2010."
"The film follows the crux of the epic Ramayana, with a ruthless police officer on the chase to find a tribal leader and lawbreaker, who has kidnapped his wife. Veeraiya, the kidnapper and his motive for the kidnap has been led on by the death of his sister, as a result of police custodial torture and brutal rape. The film explores the search by the officer, whilst exploring the changing emotions that the three protagonists experience with each other, leading to a riveting climax, situated in the jungle. This film is based on stockholm syndrome."
"Raavanan was announced in February 2008, amidst much hype of the celebrated director, Mani Ratnam's return to Tamil films, whilst Vikram's and Aishwarya Rai's selection in the lead roles, creating more anticipation. Shooting began soon after, and took place in various locations with a record number of extras in areas including Chalakudy, Kerala and Ooty, Tamil Nadu amongst other regions throughout India. The film won positive reviews, and performed well at the box office."
Film festival screenings
"The film screened at 67th Venice Film Festival.[110][111] The film was well received at Venice where the audience gave it a thunderous applause after it was screened.[112] The master filmmaker was honoured with the Jaeger-LeCoultre Glory to the Filmmaker Award, an award shared by the likes of legends like Takeshi Kitano, Abbas Kiarostami and Sylvester Stallone.[113][114][115] Later, the film has been screened at the 15th Busan International Film Festival.[116][117][118] Indian Panorama Film Festival.[119] The film was premiered at the 10th Annual Mahindra Indo-American Arts Council Film Festival in New York City.[120][121] Jim Luce praised mani ratnam's work and mentioned 'Raavanan is a must see international film of 2010.[122] 29th San Francisco Asian American Film Festival.[123][124]"
Character Map
Raavanan
Arjuna Kills Jaydhratha with Pashupatastra
"In the epic Mahābhārata, Jayadratha (Sanskrit: जयद्रथ) was the king of Sindhu Kingdom. He was married to Dushala, the only sister of the 100 Kaurava brothers. He was the son of the king Vridhakshtra."
Etymology
"The word Jayadratha is derived from two Sanskrit words, jaya meaning 'victorious' and ratha meaning 'chariot'. Thus the word Jayadratha means, 'having victorious chariots'. His other names are-"
Sindhuraja (सिन्धुराज) - king of Sindhu Kingdom Saindhava (सैन्धव) - descendant (king) of Sindhu Kingdom
Abduction of Draupadi
"One day, during the time the Pandavas were in exile, the Pandavas needed to gather samitha and darbha (holy grass) for rituals and to gather food. They left Draupadi alone at the ashrama and requested Sage Trunabindu to watch over her. On that day Jayadratha saw Draupadi and sent his minister Kotikasya and asked him to inquire as to who she was. Kotikasya went over to her and after learning about her identity, informed Jayadratha that she is Draupadi, the wife of the Pandavas. Jayadratha in spite of learning her identity, went to Draupadi and proposed to marry her. Initially welcoming him as their brother-in-law, Draupadi vehemently refused the proposal. Infuriated, Jayadratha abducted Draupadi and started moving towards his kingdom. The Pandavas returned to their ashrama to find Draupadi missing and learnt about the event that had unfolded by the account of Draupadi's friend Dhaatreyika, who had witnessed Jayadratha forcefully carrying Draupadi away. Yudhishthira then ordered Arjuna and Bhima to rescue Draupadi. Both of them defeated Jayadratha and brought him before Yudhishthira. Draupadi begged for Jayadratha to be pardoned and not killed, in order to prevent Dushala from becoming a widow. She suggested that he be treated like a slave. So, Bhima shaved Jayadratha's head leaving him with just five spots of hair on his head, before setting him free.[1]"
The first boon from Shiva
"Jayadratha desires to avenge his humiliation from the Pandavas by defeating them in the battle field. So, Jayadratha performs a rigorous tapasya in order to please Lord Shiva. When Lord Shiva appears before him, Jayadratha in turn asks for the ability to defeat the Pandavas. Shiva replies that such a boon is impossible, as the Pandavas are too mighty. However, he gives Jayadratha the ability to check the advance of the Pandavas and their forces for one whole day. However, Shiva warns Jayadratha that Arjuna is an exception to this boon."
The second boon from his father
"Years before abdicating his throne, Jayadratha's father, Vridhakshtra, hears a prophecy that his son is going to be killed. Scared for his lineage, Vridhakshtra leaves for the forest and becomes a sage. Through penance, he attempts to gain enough spiritual power to grant his son immortality or the equivalent of Bhishma's boon. However, he only manages enough to curse that whoever causes Jayadratha's head to fall to the ground, his head will turn to hundred pieces."
In the Kurukshetra war
"Naturally, Jayadratha fights on the side of Duryodhana in the Kurukshetra War. On the 13th day of the Mahabharata war, when the chakravyuha is launched by Dronacharya, Jayadratha makes use of Lord Shiva's boon. Arjuna's son Abhimanyu manages to enter the formation; he intends for the Pandava forces to follow after him and smash the formation from the inside. Jayadratha moves to close the gap, and is able to hold all the Pandava brothers and their forces at bay. As part of Drona's strategy, Arjuna and Krishna are busy battling Susharma and the Trigata Army elsewhere. Abhimanyu, who does not know how to exit from the chakravyuha, is trapped and brutally killed by the Kaurava Warriors in a combined attack."
"The Pandavas are startled after finding that Jayadratha was able to hold the world's most powerful warriors at bay. In particular, Draupadi, Yudhishthira, and Bhima feel very guilty for not killing Jayadratha when they did have the chance. Arjuna blames Jayadratha to be the cause for Abhimanyu's death. He vows to kill him the very next day before sunset, failing which Arjuna would kill himself by jumping in a pyre of fire. This sets the stage for the epic 14th day of battle."
Arjuna's revenge
Jayadratha's head falls in his father's lap
"Bhima, Satyaki and Arjuna tear through the Kaurava army. At a climactic moment, with the sun nearly set and thousands of warriors still between Arjuna and Jayadratha, Krishna sends his Sudarshana Chakra in order to mask the sun and create an illusion of sunset. The Kaurava warriors rejoice over Arjuna's defeat and look forward for his imminent suicide. Jayadratha comes before Arjuna and taunts him. Krishna orders Arjuna to kill Jayadratha. With unflinching belief in his friend, Arjuna beheads Jayadratha with the Aindrastra. The astra carries the head of Jayadratha to Vridhakshtra. When the head falls on Vridhakshatra's lap, he gets up in shock. The head of his son falls on the ground, and Vridhakshtra's head bursts into 100 pieces. Thus, Vridhakshtra becomes the victim of his own boon granted to his son. Krishna then removes the illusion. Thus, Lord Krishna saves Arjuna and sees to it that both Jayadratha and Vridhakshtra are killed in the same stroke."
"In some versions of the story, Arjuna does not use a divine weapon to send the head to Vridhakshtra. Instead, he puts on a show of archery to move the head further and further away."
Aftermath
"After the war, Arjuna fights with the Sindhu Kingdom army when it refuses to honor Yudhishthira as the Emperor of Bharatvarsha. When Dushala (his cousin) comes and begs to spare the life of her son Suratha's son, Arjuna complies."
Notes and references
"Ashwatthama (Sanskrit: अश्वत्थामा, Aśvatthāmā) or Ashwatthaman (Sanskrit: अश्वत्थामन्, Aśvatthāman) or Drauni was the son of guru Drona and he is the grandson of the Brahmin sage Bharadwaja. Ashwatthama is a mighty Maharathi[1] who fought on the Kaurava side against the Pandavas. Ashwatthama is the avatar of one of the eleven Rudras and he is one of the seven Chiranjivi. Along with his maternal uncle Kripa, Ashwatthama is believed to be a living survivor of the Kurukshetra War.[2] The rumours about his death led to the death of Drona by Prince Dhrishtadyumna. The final commander-in-chief of the Kauravas, Ashwatthama slaughters many in the Pandava camp in a sneak attack."
"According to The Mahabharata, Ashwatthaman means ""the horse-voiced"".[3] It is so called because when he was born he cried like a horse.[4]"
Birth and Life Prior to the War
"Ashwatthama was the son of Dronacharya and Kripi. Drona did many years of severe penance to please Lord Shiva in order to obtain a son who possesses the same valiance as Lord Shiva. Ashwatthama was born to become a Chiranjivi and cannot be killed by any kind of weapons. Ashwatthama was born with a gem in his forehead which gives him power over all living beings lower than humans; it protected him from hunger, thirst and fatigue."
Going to Hastinapur
"Once, when Ashwatthama was a child, he desired to drink milk, like he had seen friends drink. Not even owning a cow, Ashwatthama painted his lips with a mixture of wheat flour with water, making it seem as if he had drank milk. This scene saddened Dronacharya. He remembered his childhood friend Drupada, who in a spurt of youthful exuberance, had promised to give Drona half of whatever he had. Dronacharya went to the court of Drupada to make good on that promise, but instead, was rebuked and humiliated by Drupada.[citation needed]"
"After this incident and seeing the plight of Dronacharya, Kripacharya, invited Drona to Hastinapur. There, he came upon the attention of his co-disciple Bhishma. Thus, Dronacharya became the guru of the Pandavas and of the Kauravas in Hastinapur. Ashwatthama was trained in the art of warfare along with them.[5]"
Avatar of Lord Shiva
"According to the analysis by scholar Chatahurdi, Ashwatthama, though known as the part incarnate of Rudra, was really born of the four parts of Yama, Rudra, Kama(Cupidity), and Krodha(Anger). Bhishma himself declared that it will be virtually impossible for anyone to kill or defeat Ashwatthama in war as he is the part incarnate of Lord Shiva and he because was born to become a Chiranjivi. Bhishma said when Ashwatthama becomes angry then it will be impossible to fight him as he becomes a second Shiva. No one can handle his wrath and fury. Bhishma told Duryodhana[5]"
Lord Krishna and sage Vyasa also knew about this and they advised Arjuna to seek the blessing of Lord Shiva. Lord Shiva blessed victory to Arjuna but warned that it is impossible for anyone to kill Ashwatthama or agitate his anger.[citation needed]
Role in the Kurukshetra war
Siding with the Kauravas
"Since Hastinapura, ruled by King Dhritarashtra, offered Dronacharya the privilege of teaching the Kuru princes, both Dronacharya and Ashwatthama were loyal to Hastinapur and fought for the Kauravas in the Kurukshetra war. Before Dronacharya's death, Ashwatthama visited his father, desiring a blessing of victory, but Dronacharya refused. He advised Ashwatthama to win the war using his own strength and not through a blessing from him.[citation needed]"
Death of Drona
"On the 10th day of the war, Bhishma falls, and Drona is named the supreme commander of the armies. He promises Duryodhana that he will capture Yudhishthira, but then he repeatedly fails to do so. Duryodhana taunts and insults him, which greatly angers Ashwatthama, causing friction between Ashwatthama and Duryodhana. Lord Krishna knew that it was not possible to defeat an armed Drona. So, Krishna suggested to Yudhishthira and the other Pandavas, if Drona were convinced that his son was killed on the battlefield, then he'd disarm himself in grief."
Narayanastra
"Enraged, Ashwatthama unleashed Narayanastra, a weapon gifted to him by his father, on the Pandava army. Only Drona, Ashwatthama, and Lord Krishna possessed the knowledge of this weapon. Krishna tells the Pandavas and their warriors to drop their weapons and lie down on the ground, so that they all surrender completely to the power of this weapon. When targeted, Bhima refuses to surrender thinking that it as a cowardly act, and attacks the downpour of fiery arrows. The Narayana weapon, intensified by resistance, concentrates its shower on him, and he gets steadily exhausted and severely injured. However, he was not killed as Krishna and his brothers restrained him and forced him to surrender, thus saving their army."
Ashwatthama
Aftermath of the Attack
Narada and Vyasa came to stop Brahmashirsha astra used by Ashwatthama and Arjuna
"The dholak (Punjabi: ਢੋਲਕ, Bengali: ঢোলক, Hindi: ढोलक; Nepali: ढोलक; Dutch: dhool in the Netherlands and Suriname and Sinhalese: ඩොල්කි) is a South Asian two-headed hand-drum."
"The smaller surface of the dholak is made of goat skin for sharp notes and the bigger surface is made of buffalo skin for low pitches, which allows a combination of bass and treble with rhythmic high and low pitches.[1][2][3]"
Usage
Playing style
Similar drums with similar names are found elsewhere in western Asia.
Madal Drums Tabla Mridangam
"Kho kho (Punjabi: ਖੋ-ਖੋ) is a tag sport from the Indian subcontinent. It is played by teams of twelve players, of which nine enter the field, who try to avoid being touched by members of the opposing team.[1] It is one of the two most popular traditional tag games of the South Asia, the other being kabbadi.[2] Apart from South Asia, it is also played in South Africa.[3]"
History
"Rules, field dimensions and equipment used"
Schematic representation of a kho-kho pitch
"Subarnarekha River( Odia:ସୁବର୍ଣରେଖା ନଦୀ) (also called Swarnarekha River) flows through the Indian states of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha."
"After originating near piska/nagri, near Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand,[8][9] the Subarnarekha traverses a long distance through Ranchi[10]Seraikela Kharsawan[11] and East Singhbhum[12] districts in the state. Thereafter, it flows for shorter distances through Paschim Medinipur district in West Bengal for 83 kilometres (52 mi) and Balasore district of Odisha. There, it flows for 79 kilometres (49 mi) and joins the Bay of Bengal near Talsari. The total length of the river is 395 kilometres (245 mi).[1]"
"The basin of the Subarnarekha is smaller than most multi-state river basins in India. The rain-fed river covers a drainage area of 18,951 square kilometres (7,317 sq mi)[1]"
Tributaries
Fishing at Subarnarekha river near Domohani (confluence of Subarnarekha and Kharkhai)
"The prominent tributaries of the Subarnarekha are Kharkai, Roro, Kanchi, Harmu Nadi, Damra, Karru, Chinguru, Karakari, Gurma, Garra, Singaduba, Kodia, Dulunga and Khaijori.[9] The Kharkai meets the Subarnarekha at Sonari (Domuhani), a neighborhood of Jamshedpur.[13]"
Hundru Falls
Hundru Falls
Flood
Subarnarekha multipurpose project
Sunset across Getalsud reservoir
Completed Chandil Dam
Kirtania port
Dassam fall on Kanchi River before it merges with Subarnarekha
Film
"Khamoshi (Hindi: ख़ामोशी, Urdu: خاموشی, translation: ""Silence"") is a 1969 black-and-white Hindi drama film directed by Asit Sen, starring Rajesh Khanna and Waheeda Rehman. It especially remembered for its songs with excellent music by Hemant Kumar and some excellent lyrics by Gulzar in songs like Tum pukar lo…tumhara intezaar hai sung by Hemant Kumar, Woh shaam kuch ajeeb thi by Kishore Kumar and Humne dekhi hai in aankhon ki mehekti khushboo sung by Lata Mangeshkar. Though what really made this film stand out was the B&W cinematography by Kamal Bose, who won the Filmfare Award for his work in the film and critical acclaim received for Rajesh Khanna's performance.[1] The film is considered Waheeda Rehman's finest acting feat, as she carries the entire film through her powerful yet understated acting, she received a Filmfare nomination for it.[2] This movie is often considered to be most successful film of Waheeda Rehman box-office wise as it ran due to the craze for Rajesh Khanna.[3]"
The music was composed by Hemant Kumar and some of the popular songs (written by Gulzar) of the movie are :
01. Tum pukar lo.. tumhaara intezaar hai: Hemant Kumar 02. Woh Shaam Kuch ajeeb thi.. yeh shaam bhi ajeeb hai : Kishore Kumar 03. Humne dekhee hai un aankhon ki mehekti khushboo: Lata Mangeshkar [2] 04. Aaj Ki Raat Charagon- Aarti Mukherjee [9] 05. Dost Kahan Koi Tumsa: Manna Dey
Awards and nominations
Filmfare Best Cinematographer Award (B&W film category): Kamal Bose Filmfare Nomination for Best Actress: Waheeda Rehman[10]
Remake
"A Hollywood remake of the film, Silence, was announced in 2008 to be directed by Sanjay Patel. It was rumoured that it would star Jennifer Aniston in the lead role but nothing came of it.[11]"
Khamoshi
Awards and nominations
1986:Filmfare Best Supporting Actor Award-Ghulami: Nominated
"Kulbhushan Kharbanda is an Indian actor, who works in Hindi and Punjabi films. He is better known for his role as antagonist Shakaal in Shaan (1980)[1][2] inspired by the character of Blofeld from James Bond movies.[3] Starting with Delhi-based theatre group Yatrik in the 1960s, he moved to films with Sai Paranjpye's Jadu Ka Shankh in 1974, he worked in several parallel cinema films, before working in mainstream Bollywood. He later appeared in Mahesh Bhatt's classic, Arth (1982), Ek Chadar Maili Si (1986), and in all three parts of Deepa Mehta's Elements trilogy, Fire (1996), Earth (1998), and Water (2005).[4]"
Early life and education
"Kharbanda was born on 21st October 1944 in Hassanabdal, Attock District, Punjab, British India, which is known for the historic Gurdwara Panja Sahib. His family moved after partition and he did his early schooling from Jodhpur, Dehradun, Aligarh & Delhi. Later Kharbanda did his graduation from Kirori Mal College, Delhi University."
Career
"After his studies he and a few of his college friends formed a theatre group called ""Abhiyaan"", and then joined Delhi-based Yatrik, a bilingual theatre repertory founded by director Joy Michael in 1964, and became its first paid artiste, though after a few years Yatrik collapsed as the director was lecturing in US universities.[6][7][8] That is when he moved to Kolkata and started working with ""Padatik"" theatre group which did Hindi theatre, under director Shyamanand Jalanin 1972. Here he worked for a while, before moving to films and Mumbai.[9][10]"
"He first got noticed in Shyam Benegal's Nishaant (1974), with whom he went on to work in several more films including, Manthan (1976) and Bhumika: The Role (1977), Junoon (1978), and Kalyug (1980), soon he was a regular with Parallel cinema directors, like Godhuli (1977) with B. V. Karanth."
"Playing a bald villain, Shakaal in Shaan (1980) directed by Ramesh Sippy, saw his transition into Bollywood mainstream, Kharbanda went on to appear in Ghayal (1990), Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikandar (1992), Gupt (1997), Border (1997), Yes Boss (1997), Refugee (2000). Though he continued appearing in art films, like Chakra (1981) with Smita Patil and Naseeruddin Shah, Arth (1982) with Shabana Azmi, Andhi Gali (1984) first Hindi film of Buddhadeb Dasgupta,[11] Ek Chadar Maili Si (1986) with Hema Malini, Utsav (1984) by Girish Karnad, Mandi (1983), Trikal (1985) and Susman (1987) by Shyam Benegal, Naseem (1995) by Saeed Akhtar Mirza and Monsoon Wedding (2001) directed by Mira Nair."
"He portrayed Reema Lagoo's husband and Raj Babbar's brother in Shashi Kapoor's Filmwalas Production's, Kalyug. He has also appeared in period pieces such as Jodha Akbar and Lagaan. His most recent film are Aloo Chaat and Team: The Force. He has acted in a number of Punjabi films. He had also portrayed the hero in the legendary film Chan Pardesi (1980) and also starred in the Punjabi comedy Mahaul Theek Hai (1999)."
"He has acted in six of Deepa Mehta's movies and all her trilogies: ""Earth"",""Fire"" and ""Water"". He also has done a German film [2009]. He has also acted in TV series, like Shanno Ki Shaadi and Mahi Ve.[1] He has been seen on the stage in plays like Teen Farishtay, Hatya ek akaar ki, Baki Itihaas, Ek Shunya Bajirao, Guinea Pig, Girdhade, Sakharam Binder and recently, Atmakatha."
"Syed Modi (1962–1988), born as Syed Mehdi, was an Indian badminton singles player. He was eight-time National Badminton champion (1980–87). His most notable achievement at the international badminton circuit came in the form of men's singles title at the 1982 Commonwealth Games. He also won three other international titles, namely Austrian International (in 1983 & 1984) and USSR International (in 1985), both of which were European Badminton Circuit tournaments."
Early life and education
"Syed Modi was born into a Muslim family in the mofussil town of Sardarnagar, 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) from Chauri Chaura in Uttar Pradesh. He grew up there, but his family hailed from Zaidi Sadat Kandipur (or Kadipur) near Jalalpur town in Ambedkar Nagar District, Uttar Pradesh. His father, Syed Meer Hassan Zaidi, worked in Sardarnagar sugar mill and his mother was a housewife. Syed Modi was the youngest of their eight children (six sons and two daughters). Modi's elder brothers were not highly educated, but they worked and contributed significantly towards meeting family expenses and supporting Modi in his childhood, including for his badminton coaching, after it became clear that he had the potential to become a great player."
Career
"Modi fulfilled their hopes and prayers during his short life. In 1976, aged only 14, Syed Modi became junior national Badminton champion. His mother could not stop weeping while hearing the radio. She made her three eldest sons promise there and then, on the oath of her tears, that they would always try their hardest to provide funds for Modi's training, as far as God gave them the ability. The same year, Modi started training under Mr. P.K. Bhandari (Pushp Kumar Bhandari - chief badminton coach, N.I.S, Patiala) which continued till 1982. Thereafter, he trained under Dipu Ghosh, National Coach of Indian team.[1][4]"
"In 1980, as soon as he was eligible (aged 18), Modi won the national badminton championship. In the same year, the department of sports (Government of India) recommended his name and Modi was given a paying job as a Welfare Officer in the Indian Railways (NE). He was initially posted in Gorakhpur, nearest to his hometown and family. In 1982, his new coach wanted that he should train in Lucknow which had better facilities, so he was transferred there."
Personal life
"In 1978, while he was junior national champion, the 16-year-old Modi was selected for participating in an international tournament to be held in Beijing, China. A girl badminton player of his own age named Amita Kulkarni was in the women's team, and, as the Supreme Court would later record, ""there arose intimacy between the two.""[6] While Modi was a Muslim from north India, Amita was a Hindu from Maharashtra, had grown up in cosmopolitan Mumbai and came from an affluent, upper-class English-educated family, very different from Modi's own background. Both families were stridently opposed to marriage between Modi and Amita, not just because of the vast chasm in their backgrounds, but also because they anticipated that professional issues, jealousies and oneupmanship would also become major factors in a marriage between two ambitious, target-oriented, over-achieving individuals. Indeed, the families remained opposed to the marriage even to the bitter end. However, Modi and Ameeta were adamant and got married in a registry office in a hastily arranged ceremony."
Murder
"Two months after the birth of his daughter, Modi was murdered. On the evening of 28 July 1988, at the age of 26, Modi was shot dead as he was coming out of KD Singh Babu stadium, Lucknow after a routine practice. A brilliant career was cut short and a severe blow was dealt to badminton in India as Modi was touted to be a superstar like Prakash Padukone.[1]"
Aftermath
Memorial tournament
"Although Modi's very name has been erased from his bloodline, and his daughter has been adopted by another man, Modi's name lives on in the field of badminton, which was his lifelong passion. After Modi's death, a badminton tournament was constituted in his memory. The All India Syed Modi badminton championship was hosted each year at Lucknow,[20] which turned into ""Syed Modi International Challenge"" in 2004, and starting December 2009 it would turn into ""Syed Modi Grand Prix"", organized by Badminton Association of India.[21][22] The Railways of which he was an employee, opened the Syed Modi Railway Stadium and auditorium at his native place, Gorakhpur.[23]"
Movie
"Veteran actor, director Dev Anand decided to make a thriller on the story based on the murder of Syed Modi. Sau Crore was released in 1991. The role of Syed Modi was played by Raman Kapoor and politician played by (Naseeruddin Shah). The movie was a big flop at box office."
"The lychee, litchi, liechee, liche, lizhi or li zhi, or lichee (Litchi chinensis; Chinese: 荔枝) is the sole member of the genus Litchi in the soapberry family, Sapindaceae.[2]"
"It is a tropical and subtropical fruit tree native to the Guangdong and Fujian provinces of China, and now cultivated in many parts of the world.[2] The fresh fruit has a ""delicate, whitish pulp"" with a floral smell and a fragrant, sweet flavor. Since this perfume-like flavor is lost in the process of canning, the fruit is usually eaten fresh.[3]"
"An evergreen tree reaching 10–28 metres (33–92 ft) tall, the lychee bears fleshy fruits that are up to 5 cm long and 4 cm wide (2.0 in × 1.6 in), approximately 20g. The outside of the fruit is covered by a pink-red, roughly textured rind that is inedible but easily removed to expose a layer of sweet, translucent white flesh. Lychees are eaten in many different dessert dishes, and are especially popular in China, throughout Southeast Asia, along with South Asia and parts of Southern Africa.[3][4]"
"China is the main producer of lychees, followed by India (Bihar accounts for 71% of annual production in India), with production occurring among other countries in Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent and South Africa.[2]"
Taxonomy
"Litchi chinensis was described and named by French naturalist Pierre Sonnerat in his Voyage aux Indes orientales et à la Chine, fait depuis 1774 jusqu'à 1781 (1782). There are three subspecies, determined by flower arrangement, twig thickness, fruit, and number of stamens."
L. chinensis tree at Parque Municipal Summit in Panama
L. chinensis flowers
"Fruits mature in 80–112 days, depending on climate, location, and cultivar. Fruits vary in shape from round to ovoid to heart-shaped. The thin, tough inedible skin is green when immature, ripening to red or pink-red, and is smooth or covered with small sharp protuberances. The skin turns brown and dry when left out after harvesting. The fleshy, edible portion of the fruit is an aril, surrounding one dark brown inedible seed that is 1 to 3.3 cm long and 0.6 to 1.2 cm wide (0.39–1.30 by 0.24–0.47 in). Some cultivars produce a high percentage of fruits with shriveled aborted seeds known as 'chicken tongues'. These fruit typically have a higher price, due to having more edible flesh.[7]"
"""Lici Fruit Tree"" in Michal Boym's Flora Sinensis (1657)"
"Cultivation of lychee began in the region of southern China, Malaysia, and northern Vietnam.[2] Wild trees still grow in rainforests in Guangdong province and on Hainan Island. Unofficial records in China refer to lychee as far back as 2000 BC.[9]"
"The lychee attracted attention of European travelers, such as Juan González de Mendoza in his History of the great and mighty kingdom of China (1585; English translation 1588), based on the reports of Spanish friars who had visited China in the 1570s gave the fruit high praise:[10]"
Cultivation and uses
Germinating lychee seed with its main root (about 3 months old)
The Mauritius cultivar
China-3 lychee fruit
"Manthara (Sanskrit: मंथरा; lit: ""humpbacked"") in the Hindu epic Ramayana is the maid who convinced Queen Kaikeyi that the throne of maharaja belonged to her son Bharata and that her step-son—crown-prince Rama (the hero of the Ramayana)—should be exiled from the kingdom."
"Manthara is said to be hunch-backed, ugly & antagonistic in appearance. Manthara, it appears, is an expert talker and a cunning woman who can manipulate her way to get what she wants."
Appearance in other versions
Dasharatha being asked in court to banish Rama by Kaikeyi and her humpbacked female slave Manthara
"The Telugu version Sri Ranganatha Ramayanam mentioned a small story involving young Rama and Manthara in Balakanda. When Rama was playing with a ball and a stick, suddenly Manthara threw the ball far away from Rama. In anger, Rama struck her on the knee with the stick and her knee was broken. This message was conveyed to king Dasharatha by Kaikeyi. The king decides to send Rama and his other sons to school. This incident makes the king think about his responsibility of educating his sons, so that they can learn and become wise. Manthara had developed a kind of antagonism towards Rama and was waiting for an opportunity to take revenge against him. It is also said that during Rama's childhood Kaikeyi loved Rama more than Bharata and spend more time with him. This made Manthara jealous of Rama."
"Manthara reminds Kaikeyi of the two boons Dasharatha had given her when she had once saved his life in a celestial battle. Kaikeyi had kept these boons for later and Manthara declares that this is the right time to ask for them. She advises Kaikeyi to lie in her room wearing soiled clothes and no ornaments. She should weep and cry, pretending anger. When Dasharatha would come to console her, she should immediately ask for the boons. The first boon would be that Bharata would be made the king. The second boon would be that Rama should be sent into the forest for exile for fourteen years. Manthara reckons that the fourteen-year banishment would be long enough for Bharata to consolidate his position in the Empire and weave his way into people's hearts."
Portrayal in film and television
"In Ramanand Sagar's highly successful television series Ramayan, Manthara is played by veteran character actress Lalita Pawar. In this TV series, it is shown that when Rama returns to Ayodhya after exile, he goes to meet Manthara, who has been imprisoned in a dark room. Seeing Rama, Manthara falls into his feet and apologizes for all her sins on which Rama forgives her."
Laddus packed for a wedding
Laddus
"Laddu or laddoo are ball-shaped sweets popular in the Indian Subcontinent. Laddus are made of flour, minced dough and sugar with other ingredients that vary by recipe. They are often served at festive or religious occasions.[1][2]"
Composition
"Common flours used for laddu include besan (chickpea flour), rava (wheat semolina) and ground coconut. These are combined with sugar and other flavorings, cooked in ghee and molded into a ball shape. Some laddu recipes are prepared using Ayurvedic medicinal ingredients, including methi laddu, multigrain and resin laddu. Nuts such as pistachios and almonds are commonly stuffed into laddus."
Boondi laddu
"Boondi laddu or Bundiar Laddu (Bengali: বুন্দিয়ার লাডুড) is made from boondi. It is often served in occasions like marriages, or festivals such as Raksha bandhan and Diwali. Motichoor laddu is made from fine boondi where the balls are tiny and is cooked with ghee or oil. Originally this laddu was a north indian sweet, but it is now popular throughout South Asia."
Besan laddu
Besan Laddu decorated with silver foil and almond chips
"Besan laddu (Hindi: बेसन के लड्डू) is a popular Indian sweet dish made of Besan (chickpea flour or gram flour), sugar and ghee. Besan is roasted in ghee till golden brown appearance with nutty fragrance. Then sugar is added to it. Pistachio pieces are also mixed in this mixture optionally. Sweet balls are then made from this mixture. It has a long shelf life. It is often served at festivals, family events and religious occasions in India."
Coconut laddoo
"There are multiple coconut laddu recipes. Its earliest form Narayl Nakru dates back to the time of the Chola Empire, when it was a sweet that was packed for travelers and warriors as a symbol of good luck for their expeditions.[3]"
Malai laddu
"Malai laddu (Hindi: मलाई लड्डू, Urdu: ملائی لڈو‎) (cream balls) is a popular dessert in Pakistan and India, prepared from Khoa, the solids remaining after evaporating milk. In India, it is called Pedha and is often prepared as an offering to the gods."
Use
"Laddu is often prepared for festivals or family events such as weddings and births, or given as a prasad at Hindu temples, especially at Venkateswara Temple, Tirumala, Andhra Pradesh, it is famous with the name Tirupati Laddu. Laddu is considered a traditional Eid dessert in some Muslim communities."
Cultural references
"In the Sesame Street episode ""Rakhi Road"", laddus are featured prominently as a favoured Indian dessert. Elmo is shown making laddus and enjoying eating them as part of the celebrations around the Indian festival of Rakhi.[8]"
"Department of Higher Education, Odisha (Hindi: उच्च शिक्षा विभाग, ओडिशा) is a unit of the Government of Odisha in India that looks after the school and college education in the state of Odisha.[1] The department looks after the education curriculum at University, Post-Graduate, Graduate and Higher Secondary level in the state of Odisha. The department is responsible for hiring and employing the Higher Secondary school teachers and college professors employed in Government schools and colleges running under Government of Odisha. Moreover, it looks after functioning of state run Universities namely Ravenshaw University, Utkal University, Berhampur University, Sambalpur University, Sri Jagannath Sanskrit Viswavidyalaya, North Orissa University, Fakir Mohan University and Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology."
Facility
"In the year 2010 Department of Higher Education, Odisha introduced Students Academic Management System also known as (SAMS).[2] This facility is based on e-admission of students seeking admission to +2 and +3 classes in various private and government schools, colleges and university in the state of Odisha under Department of Higher Education in the streams of Arts, Commerce, Science and other self finance courses."
"DHE Odisha website also enables facility of RTI, e-space, e-dispatch and pool of information resources about staff position and Infrastructure support of various Schools, Colleges and University. E- Dispatch and E- Space are web based facility for receiving Letters, Office Orders, Amendments, and other resources of information's of different departments of Government of Odisha."
"Department of Higher Education, Odisha"
"Gangadhar Meher University (Odia: ଗଙ୍ଗାଧର ମେହେର ବିଶ୍ୱବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ) is a co-educational NAAC-A state university situated in Sambalpur, Odisha, India. It is named after the illustrious Odia poet, Gangadhar Meher."
About the college
"The college was established in 1944 as Sambalpur College in Sambalpur, Odisha.[1] The name of the institution was changed to Gangadhar Meher College in 1949. Earlier it was popularly known as Gangadhar Meher (Autonomous) College, and was affiliated to Sambalpur University. This college was accredited 'A' by NAAC on 11 May 2015 by the UGC team. It was upgraded to a university in 2015, and now it has been renamed as Gangadhar Meher University. The university offers undergraduate, postgraduate, Master of Philosophy and self financing courses."
"From a small student strength of 192 in 1944, the college has made rapid strides and has grown into a multi-faculty postgraduate college, catering to the needs of about 4500 students. It provides teaching facility in 19 subjects at the undergraduate level and four subjects at the M.Phil. courses.[2][3] Besides the conventional streams of study in humanities, science and commerce, this institution has introduced courses in still photography, audio production and textile science. The college also offers computer courses at B. Sc. and M. Sc. levels, including M.C.A .(Master in Computer Applications).[4] The college has opened some career oriented courses like P.G. Diploma in Bio-Informatics, B.B.A., M.B.A. and B.Sc. Information Science and Telecommunication from the academic session 2003-2004. The relevance of these courses in general terms and within the specific context of a backward part of the country is undeniably significant. This college has also been identified as a center to upgrade the merit of SC/ST/Minority/OBC students through different schemes, functioning since 2007-2008."
"The college has been functioning as an Autonomous College since 1991 and is managed and controlled by statutory and non-statutory bodies, as prescribed by the University Grants Commission. The autonomy of this institution has been extended up to 2013-2014 by the UGC letter No.:-F.22-1/2009(AC)/April 2009, based on its academic reputation, co-curricular activities, quality of institutional management and responsiveness of administrative structure.The college has been identified as a 'College with Potential for Excellence' (CPE ) by the U.G.C. since 2004-05 and it has been extended up to end of XI Plan period. It is also NAAC accredited with a B Grade since February 28, 2005. This institution is fully committed to its aims and goals and taking good care of students."
Admissions
There are four types of courses in the college.
Padampur (also known as Padmapur) is a town and a NAC in Bargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"Padmapur is located at 21°00′N 83°04′E﻿ / ﻿21.0°N 83.07°E﻿ / 21.0; 83.07.[1] It has an average elevation of 205 metres (673 ft). It is about 440 kilometres (270 mi) from its capital city of Bhubaneshwar and It is almost 80 kilometres (50 mi) from its district headquarters, Bargarh. Padampur is about 80 km from Bolangir, the district headquarter of its neighboring district to its south, thus Padampur, Bargarh and Bolangir roughly form an equilateral triangle, each urban centre located at the three corners. Nearest Railway Station: Bargarh Road (80 km), Khariar Road (76 km), Kantabanji (78 km), Bolangir (80 km)"
"Raj Borasambar High School, Padampur"
"The area around Padmapur is mostly rain-fed and hence is prone to frequent droughts. The Anga (Ong) river, a right bank tributary of the Mahanadi (the largest river of Odisha) flows on the eastern side of the town about 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) away, and one the way to Bargarh. The Gandhamardan Parvat is about 40 kilometres (25 mi) South-east and forms the natural border between Bargarh and Balangir districts. Till date the beautiful locale has not been spoiled by industrialisation, but the per capita income is very low. The site proposed for Pujharipali Dam(at Pujharipali, 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) down Lakhamara, 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) up Kudharenpali) on Anga is about 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) to the north of Padampur."
Demography
"As per 2011 India census,[2] Padampur had a population of 17,625. With a sex ratio of 961, males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Padampur has an average literacy rate of 69%, lower than the national average of 74.04%: male literacy is 78%, and female literacy is 60%. In Padampur, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age. The sub-district of Padampur has a total population of 81,259, with 71 villages under it, besides the town of Padampur. Padampur NAC (Notified Area Council) is divided into 11 wards (administrative sub-units), with following population composition: ward 001: 2109, ward 002: 2825, ward 003: 1478, ward 004: 1133, ward 005: 998, ward 006: 1121, ward 007: 1752, ward 008: 2295, ward 009: 815, ward 010: 1533 and ward 011: 1566."
Anchal College Padampur
"Colleges: Anchal college[3] Padampur (http://www.anchalcollege.org/), established in 1965 and spread over 40 acres of campus, is one of the oldest Government colleges in entire western Odisha. In fact, Anchal College predates Sambalpur University (estd: 1966), to which it is currently affiliated. The college offers various subjects to students under three broad streams viz. Science, Ats and Commerce. There is an exclusive women's college, Government Women's College which has been in operation since 1995. Besides these there are a few other private colleges offering courses at the higher secondary levels in Padampur."
"Statue of Gangadhar Meher, The Poet, in RBHS, Padampur"
"High Schools: Raj Borasambar High School (RBHS), established in 1944 is an educational institution at the secondary level. Government Girls High School is another oldest high school in the district. Besides these, other notable secondary level schools include Saraswati Sishu Mandir, Town High School and Zenith Lions Gurukul among others."
"Current MLA from Padmapur Assembly Constituency is Pradip Purohit of BJP, who won the seat in State elections in 2014.[4] .Prior to him, Mr Bijay Ranjan Singh Bariha won this seat earlier for BJD in 2009, 2000 and for JD in 1995 and in 1990. Other previous MLAs from this seat were Satya Narayan Sahu of INC who won this seat in 2004, in 1985 for INC and in 1980 representing INC(I)."
"Padampur has a very rich tradition of culture. While the festival of Nuakhai is an age old practice, Nuakhai Bhetghat is being celebrated at the town level as a public festival since 1997 under the aegis of ABCD organisation. The uniqueness of this festival is that, people from all religions participating in the evening get together at the bhetghat programme. This feature makes the festival truly public. This celebration is marked by many other uniqueness like a non-Brahmin priest does the formal worship of the Deity Maa Samlai, the eldest living member in the region is felicitated on the occasion(https://sites.google.com/site/abcdpadampur/home/nuakhai-bhetghat)."
"Cultural Organisations: The Loo (estd. 1993), Ravindra Kala Parishad !!, Nataraj Dance !! (to be verified)"
Miscellaneous
Nearby Spiritual Centres:
"Places of Historical Prominence: Ganiapali[7] - site for old (4th-5th century AD) Buddhist excavations (40 km) (http://odisha.gov.in/e-magazine/Orissareview/may2005/engpdf/biddhist_remains_in_western_orissa.pdf),"
Padmapur
"Mukri (5 January 1922 – 4 September 2000) was an Indian film actor, who worked as a comedian in Hindi films.[1] Born as Muhammad Umar Mukri in Alibagh, he started his film career from film Pratima along with noted film actor Dilip Kumar in 1945. Subsequently in career spanning 50 years, he acted in over 600 films.[2]"
"Mukri with his toothless smile, diminutive stature and perfect humour timing amused the audiences in more than 600 films, over six decades in Bollywood."
"His notable films are Mother India (1957), Sharabi (1984), Amar Akbar Anthony (1977), Lawaris (1981), Bombay to Goa (1972), Gopi (1972), Kohinoor (1960) and many more."
"His career in films ran parallel to Dilip Kumar, who was his schoolmate.They made their debut as with the Bombay Talkies film Pratima, also the directorial debut of actor P. Jairaj.[2] Before joining film industry, Mukri worked as a Qazi."
"Mukri died in Mumbai on 4 September 2000 at the age of 78, at Lilavati Hospital due to heart attack.[3]"
"Mukri died and was survived by his wife Mumtaz and 5 children, 2 daughters Naseem and Amina and three sons Nasir, Faruk and Bilal.[2] One of his children is Naseem Mukri who wrote dialogues of movies Dhadkan and Haan Maine Bhi Pyaar Kiya. She wrote screenplay of Dhadkan and acted in it too.[4][5]"
Gandhamardan Hills or Gandhamardan parbat (Odia: ଗନ୍ଧମାର୍ଦନ ପର୍ବତ) is a hill located in between Balangir and Bargarh district of Odisha.[1] This hill is well known for medicinal plants. There is a Bauxite reserve which is planned for exploration by the State Govt. with private venture.[2]
Mythology
"This hill also has a lot of historic importance as it was once a seat of Buddhist culture. Till to date many ruins found on the plateau at the hilltop. According to mythology, Lord Hanuman carried this hill on his shoulders from Himalayas to save the life of Lakshman. In the Tretaya Yug (the Silver Age), Jambavan (the unerring counselor of Ram) had suggested Vir Hanuman to bring Bisalyakarani ere dawn, so that Laxman would rise back to life. It was in the middle of the war between Lord Ram and Ravan. Hanuman failed to identify the particular herb and carried on his shoulders a huge Himalayan mass. While flying above and proceeding toward Lanka (the kingdom of Ravan), a portion dropped down. Gandhamardan is synonymous to that portion only. At northern slope of this hill the Nrusinghanath Temple is located; whereas on the southern slope of this hill is the famous Harishankar Temple located."
"Sage Drona residing on this mountain belonging to the Mahabharat period used to deliver art of weaponry to the selected few pupils and he was famous for it across the country. The pupils educated and trained in the art of warfare were feared by many warriors of that time. Glowing tributes is paid to Hiuen T’sang, the champion Chinese traveler, who was attracted by the scenic splendour of Gandhamardan. He has spoken of the flowering Buddhist University of PARIMALGIRI (po-lo-mo-lo-ki-li), which had its campus on the picturesque Gandhamardan hills.[3]"
Bio-diversity
"The Gandhamardan mountain ranges are a rich source of diversity for medicinal plants. The Botanical Survey of India has reported the existence of 220 plant species of medicinal value. Local people, however, claim that there are more than 500 species of medicinal plants in this area. The flora of the buffer zone is most vulnerable. Many medicinal plant species such as Clerodendron indicum, Rauvolfia serpentina and Plumbago zeylanica, which were once available in plenty, have become scarce. A study recorded 2,700 angiosperms and 125 species of important medicinal plants, out of a total of 220 species of medicinal and quasi-medicinal and economically vital plants.[4]"
"Such is its richness in medicinal plants that more than 100 traditional healthcare practitioners live in and around the Gandhamardan hills. These practitioners provide medical facilities to about 50,000 tribal people. There are two ayurvedic colleges and hospitals on both side of Gandhamardan — one in Bargarh district and the other in Balangir."
"Local people have great faith in ayurvedic practitioners and in many villages, their main occupation is to collect herbs and supply them to companies such as Dabur and Zandu. Some of these villages include Khandijharan, Manbhang, Magurmal and Cherenga jhanj. A study conducted by M Brahma and H O Saxena of the Regional Research Laboratory recorded the medicinal uses of nearly 200 species, out of which they found the uses of 77 to be new or ""interesting'."
"The local communities and the peoples movement in Gandhamardhan hills have been largely responsible for preserving the rich biodiversity of the region. This community has protected their land, forests and resources from being plundered by corporate vested interests. The movement continues to be an inspiration for various peoples'struggles across Odisha who are striving to assert their rights."
"Born out of anger of Gods, Katyayani killed demon, Mahishasura"
"Katyayani is the sixth form amongst Navadurga or the nine forms of Hindu goddess Parvati (Shakti), worshipped during the Navratri celebrations.[1] This is the second name given for Parvati in amarakosha, the Sanskrit lexicon(uma katyayani gaouri kali haimavathi iiswari). In Shaktism she is associated with the fierce forms of Shakti or Durga, a Warrior goddess, which also includes Bhadrakali and Chandika,[2] and traditionally she is associated with the colour red, as with Goddess Durga, the primordial form of Shakti, a fact also mentioned in Patanjali's Mahabhashya on Pāṇini, written in 2nd century BCE.[3]"
"She is first mentioned in the Taittiriya Aranyaka part of the Yajurveda. Skanda Purana mentions her being created out of the spontaneous anger of Gods, which eventually led to slaying the demon, Mahishasura, mounted of the lion given to her by Goddess Parvati. This occasion is celebrated during the annual Durga Puja festival in most parts of India.[4]"
"Her exploits are described in the Devi-Bhagavata Purana and Devi Mahatmyam, part of the Markandeya Purana attributed to sage Markandeya Rishi, who wrote it in Sanskrit ca. 400-500 CE. Over a period of time, her presence was also felt in Buddhist and Jain texts and several Tantric text, especially the Kalika-Purana(10th century), which mentions Uddiyana or Odradesa(Odisha), as the seat of Goddess Katyayani and Lord Jagannath [citation needed].[5]"
"In Hindu traditions like Yoga and Tantra, she is ascribed to the sixth Ajna Chakra or the Third eye chakra and her blessings are invoked by concentrating on this point.[1]"
Mythology
"According to ancient legends, she was born a daughter of Katyayana Rishi, born in the Katya lineage, thus called Katyayani, ""daughter of Katyayana"". Elsewhere in texts like Kalika Purana, it is mentioned that it was Rishi Kaytyayana who first worshipped her, hence she came to known as Katyayani. In either case, she is a demonstration or apparition of the Durga and is worshipped on the sixth day of Navratri festival.[1][6]"
"Devi Mahatmya in Sanskrit, the central text of Shaktism, dated 11 CE"
"The Vamana Purana mentions the legend of her creation in great detail: ""When the gods had sought Vishnu in their distress, he and at his command Shiva, Brahma and the other gods, emitted such flames from their eyes and countenances that a mountain of effulgence was formed, from which became manifest Katyayini, refulgent as a thousand suns, having three eyes, black hair and eighteen arms. Shiva gave her his trident, Vishnu a Sudarshan Chakra or discus, Varuna a shankha, a conch-shell, Agni a dart, Vayu a bow, Surya a quiver full of arrows, Indra a thunderbolt, Kuvera a mace, Brahma a rosary and water-pot, Kala a shield and sword, Visvakarma a battle-axe and other weapons. Thus armed and adored by the gods, Katyayani proceeded to the Mysore hills. There, the asuras saw her and captivated by her beauty they so described her to Mahishasura, their king, that he was anxious to obtain her. On asking for her hand, she told him she must be won in fight. He came and fought; at length Durga dismounted from her lion, and sprang upon the back of Mahisha, who was in the form of a buffalo and with her tender feet so smote him on the head that he fell to the ground senseless, when she cut off his head with her sword and hence was called Mahishasuramardini, the Slayer of Mahishasura.,[4] the legend also finds mention in Varaha Purana and the classical text of Shaktism, the Devi-Bhagavata Purana[7]"
Katyayini
"The Bhagavata Purana in 10th Canto, 22nd Chapter, describes the legend of Katyayani Vrata, where young marriageable daughters (gopis) of the cowherd men of Gokula in Braja, worshipped Goddess Katyayani and took a vrata or vow, during the entire month of Margashirsha, the first month of the winter season, to get Lord Krishna as their husband. During the month, they ate only unspiced khichri and after bathing in the Yamuna at sunrise, made an earthen deity of the goddess on the riverbank and worshipped the idol with aromatic substances like sandalwood pulp, lamps, fruits, betel nuts, newly grown leaves, fragrant garlands and incense. This follows the episode where Krishna takes away their clothes while they were bathing in the Yamuna River.[11][12]"
Temples
"Sri Katyayani Peeth Temple, Vrindavan, (U.P) [14] Shri Katyayani Baneshwar Temple, Aversa, Karnataka, built in AD 1510, original idols brought from Goa during Portuguese rule. [15] Chhatarpur Temple, Delhi, built 1974. Sri Kartyayani Temple, Cherthala, Alappuzha, Kerala, India. Sri Katyayani Temple, Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India. [16] Sri Kathyayini Amman Temple, Marathurai, Thanjavur, Tanjore District, Tamil Nadu. [17][18] Sri Katyayani Shakthipeeth Adhar Devi(Arbuda Devi) Temple, Mount Abu, Aravali Range, Rajasthan, India.[19][20]"
""
"Kirtania port is a deep-water, all-weather port proposed to be constructed at the mouth of Subarnarekha River in Balasore district in the Indian state of Odisha."
"For over 40 years there was only one major port in Odisha, at Paradip with a minor port at Gopalpur. That picture has changed dramatically in the past few years.[1]"
"Based on a study by IIT Madras, the Government of Odisha had identified 13 locations along the state’s 480 kilometres (300 mi) coast line as suitable for setting up of ports. Thereafter, in order to facilitate the setting up of new ports with participation of private parties the state government had formulated in 2004 a separate port policy.[2]"
"Apart from the Dhamra port, which is set to be operational by mid-2010, progress has been achieved in setting up three other ports – Kirtania port at Subarnarekha mouth, Astaranga port in Puri and Chudamani port in Bhadrak. After implementation of these projects, Odisha is expected to become the vital exit point for not only the state, but other land-locked states like Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh.[3]"
Krtania is located at 21°33′40″N 87°19′45″E﻿ / ﻿21.561210°N 87.329280°E﻿ / 21.561210; 87.329280 at Chaumukh village.
"The Government of Odisha has signed a memorandum of understanding with Chennai-based Creative Port Development Pvt. Ltd. For the development of a deep-water, all-weather project at Kirtania at the mouth of the Subarnarekha. The Kirtania Port project was being taken up on a 50-year build, own, operate, share and transfer (boost) basis. The development would include a dedicated rail cum road connection from the port to the NH 5 and rail network at Jaleswar. The port will have an initial capacity to handle 10 million tones per year.[4][5]"
"The work on the proposed port has been delayed because of a legal tussle between the promoters and venture capital investors of the company. The Promoter aggrieved by their Venture partners had filed an oppression & Mismanagement case under sec 397,398 & 402 of the Companies Act 1956 in the Company Law Board(CLB). The CLB has given a verdict in favour of the promoter shareholders. The Venture Capitalist has been ordered to exit from the Promoter's Company as well as Kirtania Port Project at a price of Rs. 52.50 Crore.[6]"
Legend
"The Skanda Purana narrates that Shiva first wed Sati, the granddaughter of Brahma, and the daughter of Daksha. Daksha never liked Shiva, who, symbolizing destruction and detachment, begs for food, dances in a graveyard smeared with ashes, and has no possessions, not even good clothes for himself. Daksha publicly insulted Shiva in a Yagna ceremony, and Sati immolated Herself in anger over this treatment of Her husband. The Yagna was destroyed by the ganas of Shiva led by Virabhadra. Shiva was an ascetic and his earlier marriage was conducted with great difficulty; his remarriage was out of the question. Hence Taraka believed that his boon of being killed by Shiva's son alone would give him invincibility."
"This famous temple is situated in the center of Pehowa in Kurukshetra district of Haryana. Pehowa is at a distance of 200 kilometers from Delhi and 60 kilometers from Karnal. It is also very close to the state of Punjab as it lies on the border of the two states, Haryana and Punjab."
Rules
Women are strictly forbidden in this temple which celebrates the brahmachari form of Lord Kartikeya. The devotees observe very strict rules during the months of Chaturmas (the months from Ashadha through Kartik). It is said that a true devotee of this shrine never loses any battles in his life.
"Born as Mohan Atmaram Deshmukh in 1939/1940[citation needed], Mohan Choti was an Indian film actor, who worked as a comedian in Hindi films. He died on 1 February 1992 at the age of 52."
Filmography
Mohan Choti acted in nearly 280 films from 1954 to 1994.
Mohan Choti
"Milan is a 1967 Hindi film directed by Adurthi Subba Rao.[1] It was a remake of his hit Telugu film Mooga Manasulu (1963) and was produced by L. V. Prasad. The film stars Sunil Dutt, Nutan, Jamuna (reprising her role from the original Telugu version), Pran and Deven Varma. The award-winning and very popular music was given by Laxmikant Pyarelal. It is among the earliest films to deal with the theme of reincarnation."
Plot
Cast
Sunil Dutt as Gopi/ Gopinath
Nutan as Radha/Radha Devi
Jamuna as Gowri
Pran as Radha's uncle
"Deven Varma as Rambabu, Radha's husband"
Soundtrack
"The lyrics of the film were career-defining for Anand Bakshi and helped take him to the ""top"", with songs like ""Sawan Ka Mahina Pawan Kare Sor"", ""Ram Kare Aisa Ho Jaaye"" and ""Bol Gori Bol"".[2] The music was by Lakshmikant Pyarelal and the playback singers were Lata Mangeshkar and Mukesh.[3]"
Filmfare Best Actress Award — Nutan Filmfare Best Music Director Award— Laxmikant Pyarelal Filmfare Best Supporting Actress Award — Jamuna
"The 2016 Kabaddi World Cup, the third standard-style Kabaddi World Cup, is an international kabaddi tournament governed by the International Kabaddi Federation, currently being contested from 7 to 22 October 2016 in Ahmedabad, India. Twelve countries are competing in the tournament."
Participating countries
2016 Kabaddi World Cup (Standard style) as of 15 Oct 2016
Venue
"The tournament is being hosted at The Arena (currently known as The Arena by TransStadia, pending the sale of official naming rights), a newly-constructed convertible stadium in Ahmedabad. In its standard configuration, it operates as an outdoor football pitch capable of seating 20,000. The venue utilizes technology licensed from the British firm StadiArena, which allows a portion of the field to be partitioned into a 4,000-seat indoor arena, which is used for the tournament. The venue is a public-private partnership with India's Department of Tourism[1][2]"
Marketing
Emblem
"The official emblem of the tournament was unveiled on 14 September 2016 by Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Vijay Goel. It incorporates a stylized lion, representing the Asiatic lions of Girnar. The use of a lion symbolizes the ""ferocity of a Kabaddi defender and the agility of a raider"", while its striped mane represents the worldwide participation in the tournament.[3][4]"
Broadcasting
Television
Countries Broadcaster  India Star Sports  United Kingdom Sky Sports  United States Fox Sports  Canada Commonwealth Broadcasting Network  Saudi Arabia OSN Sports  Latin America ESPN Online hotstar.com
Schedule
Pool points system:
Win 5 points Draw 3 points Loss (7 points or less) 1 point Loss (More than 7 points) 0 point
"Bhubaneswar is the capital city of Odisha, India. It was the ancient capital of the Kalinga Empire and the architectural legacy of the period is its greatest attraction. There are many sites in the city that testify the importance of the region during the 7th to 11th century A.D when the Kalinga kings ruled Odisha and the regions beyond it. The Ananta Vasudeva Temple and Vindusagar tank in the only temple of Lord Vishnu in the city of Shiva. The temples in Bhubaneswar are thus regarded as having been built from the 8th to 12th century of saivite influence.[1]"
"The Jain and Buddhist shrines give a clear picture about the settlements around Bhubaneswar in the first two centuries B.C, and one of the most complete edicts of the Mauryan emperor, Ashoka, dating between 272-236 B.C, remains carved in rock just 5 miles to the southwest of the modern city.[2]"
"Name of the temple Deity Picture Architecture/Timeline Notes/Beliefs Aisanyesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva Kalinga, 13th Century It is a 13th-century Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Shiva.[3] Akhadachandi Temple Lord Siva Kalinga, 10th Century The temple is surrounded by Bindusagar tank in the east at a distance of 6.40 metres, Markandeya temple in the west and private residential buildings in the southern side. The temple faces south and the presiding deity faces east. Ananta Vasudeva Temple 20°14′26.18″N 85°50′8.81″E﻿ / ﻿20.2406056°N 85.8357806°E﻿ / 20.2406056; 85.8357806﻿ (Ananta Vasudeva Temple) Lord Krishna 13th Century The temple was constructed in the thirteenth century, and the complete murties of Krishna, Balarama, and Subhadra are worshipped there.[4] Balarama stands under a seven hooded serpent, while Krishna holds a mace, chakra and a conch. The temple dates back to the period of Chandrika Devi, the daughter of Anangabhima III, during the reign of the king Bhanudeva. Astasambhu Temples 20°15′2″N 85°51′18″E﻿ / ﻿20.25056°N 85.85500°E﻿ / 20.25056; 85.85500﻿ (Astasambhu Temples) Lord Siva 10th Century In the Uttaresvara Siva Temple precinct there are eight temples of identical size and dimension locally known as Astasambhu. Ashta means eight and Sambhu refers to another name of Lord Shiva. Five of them are arranged in one alignment are also known as Panchu Pandava.[5] Bharateswar Temple Lord Siva 6th Century Built during Sailoidbhava rule[6] Bharati Matha Lord Vishnu 11th Century It is a temple of the Hindu God Siva. This is one of the oldest temples in Bhubaneswar. The temple is a Hindu monastery with three stories which was built in the 11th century It is currently used for living Matha purposes and earlier it was used as a Hindu pilgrimage centre. Bhringesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 8th Century The main temple is of late Kalingan style dating back to 15th century. The present temple was built during the Gajapati Rulers. A four-handed black chlorite image of Brahma holding Veda and water vessel in upper two hands and rosary, abhaya mudra in lower two hand. The temple is situated on the foothills of Dhauli and the left bank of the river Daya, in the southeastern outskirts of Bhubaneswar in the village Khatuapada. Bhrukutesvar Siva Temple Lord Siva 13th Century It is a single structure pidha deul without any frontal porch. According to the local people, this temple was built by the Kesaris (Somavamsis). Brahma Temple, Bindusagar Lord Brahma 15th Century The main temple is of late Kalingan style dating back to 15th century. The present temple was built during the Gajapati Rulers. A four handed black chlorite image of Brahma holding Veda and water vessel in upper two hands and rosary, abhaya mudra in lower two hand. Brahmeswara Temple Lord Siva 11th Century The temple was erected at the end of the 9th century, is richly carved inside and out. This Hindu temple can be dated with fair accuracy by the use of inscriptions that were originally on the temple. They are now lost, but records of them preserve the information of around 1058. The temple is built in the 18th regnal year of the Somavamsi king Udyotakesari by his mother Kolavati Devi. This corresponds to 1058. Byamokesvara Temple Lord Siva 11th Century It is located in front of the Lingaraj Temple across the road in the left side of the eastern gateway at a distance of 10.00 m. The temple faces towards the west. It is a living temple and the enshrined deity is a Siva lingam with a circular yonipitha at the centre of the sanctum. At present the sanctum is 1.50 m below the present road level. It is a recently recovered temple that had been buried. It was built in 10th century. Chakreshvari Siva Temple Lord Siva 10-11th Century The temple stands on a low platform. On plan, the temple has a vimana and a renovated frontal porch. The vimana(shrine) is pancharatha and the frontal porch. On elevation, the vimana is of rekha order extends from pabhaga to kalasa. From bottom to the top, the temple has a bada, gandi and mastaka. Champakesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 13th Century It is 157 metres west of Parasuramesvara on the right side of the Kotitirthesvara lane leading to Bindu sagara. It is a laterite temple. Local people believe that the enshrined Siva lingam is patalaphuta and the precinct is the abode of nagas (champa naga) after whom the deity is named as Champakesvara. Chandrasekhara Mahadeva Temple Lord Siva 19th Century It is a Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Siva located in the village Patia, Bhubaneswar. The enshrined deity is a Siva lingam within a circular yoni pitha. The temple has a private ownership but is held by many people at the same time. Chintamanisvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 14th Century The temple dates back to 14th century According to local legend the temple was built by the Kesharis (Somavamsis). Various religious sacraments like Sivaratri, Siva vivaha, jalasaya, rudrabhisekha are performed here. Devasabha Temple Lord Siva 18th Century It is located in the Kharakhia Vaidyanath temple precinct; it is an abandoned temple that faces east. There is no deity inside the cella. As per the locals, the temple is the assembly of all gods and goddess for which it is known as Devasabha. Dishisvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 15th Century The presiding deity is a Siva-lingam within a circular yonipitha installed inside the sanctum. This 15th-century, privately owned temple is situated within a private compound surrounded by private residential buildings on three sides of east, west, south and the road on the north. Duladevi Temple Mahishamardini 18th Century It is located on the right side of Duladevi Chowk in the village Kapilesvara in Bhubaneswar. It is 100 metres south east of Kapilesvara Siva temple. The presiding deity is a four armed Mahishamardini killing the buffalo demon. Gandhi Garabadu Precinct Vishnu Temple Lord Vishnu 12-13th Century It is situated on the right side of the temple road branching from Garej Chowk to Lingaraj temple. The temple faces west. The garbhagriha of the temple is empty. The cult icons on the outer walls and the dvarapalas in the doorjamb, suggest that the temple was originally dedicated to Lord Vishnu. Gangesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 13-14th Century The presiding deity is a Siva lingam within a circular yonipitha. It is a living temple and maintained by the Ganga Yamuna Sangathana. Gokarnesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 1st Century BC It is in close proximity to the ancient fort of Sisupalgarh, which is identified as the Kalinganagari of king Kharavela of the 1st century BC, the local legend assign the temple to 1st century BC and king Kharavela as the builder of the original temple. The temple fragments, however, do not agree to such an early date. Gopal Tirtha Matha 16th Century The Matha is located in front of the Chitrakarini temple is a branch of the Gopala Tirtha Matha of Puri. Gopala Tirtha was one of the prominent disciples of Sankaracharya, who commissioned monastic establishments in Puri and Bhuabaneswar. Gosagaresvar Precinct Siva Temple Lord Siva 14-15th century The enshrining deity is a Siva lingam at the center of a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum measures 1.10 square metres as it faces towards west. According to the local legend once Lord Siva killed a calf inadvertently. In order to cleanse the sin of killing the calf he had to take a bath in the Gosagaresvara pond and worship the lord Gosagaresvara. In keeping with the tradition even today people suffering from the sin of killing cows, take ritual bath in the tank and worship Gosagaresvara to cleanse the sin. Gourisankara Siva Temple Lord Siva 9th century The enshrined deity is a Siva lingam with a circular yonipitha in the sanctum which is 1.50 metres below the present road level. It is a living temple. The temple is buried from three sides up to the baranda portion and a narrow stepped passage from the west leads into the sanctum right from the road. Jaleswar Siva Temple Precinct Lord Siva 12th century The presiding deity is a Siva-lingam within a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum, which is 1.15 meters below the chandrasila. The Sanctum measures 2.00 square meters. It is a living temple. According to the prevalent legend the king of Chudangagada was a devout worshipper of lord Lingaraja. Kapilesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 14th century The presiding deity is a Siva-lingam at the center of a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum. It is a living temple, facing towards east and maintained by Kapilesvara Temple Trust Board. The temple is situated within the precinct along with 33 other monuments. Labesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 15th century The twin temples of Kushesvara and Labesvara are situated on both the sides of the road, almost opposite to each other in close proximity to the Ramesvara temple on the right and Satrughnesvara group of temples on the left side of the road leading from Kalpana square to Bindhu Sagar. Labesvara Siva temple is situated on the right side of the Ramesvara or Mausima road leading from Kalpana square. It is a living temple and facing towards west. The enshrined deity is a Siva lingam within a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum. Ladu Baba Temple Lord Siva 15th century According to the local tradition, the deity was rescued and shifted from Ravana’s Lanka to Ekamra Kshetra during the conflagration of Svarna Lanka on the eve of Rama-Ravana war. Lakhesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 13th century Lakhesvara Siva temple is located in the right side of the Ganges–Yamuna road, behind the Lingaraja market complex, Old town, Bhubaneswar. It is situated at a distance of 70 metres north east of Lingaraj temple and at a distance of 10 metres south of Gangesvara and Yamunesvara Siva temple across the road. Lakhmaneswara temple Lord Siva 6th century Built during Shailodbhava rule.[7] Lingaraj Temple 20°14′18″N 85°50′01″E﻿ / ﻿20.23833°N 85.83361°E﻿ / 20.23833; 85.83361﻿ (Lingaraj Temple) Lord Siva 11th century It is a Hindu temple dedicated to Harihara, another name for Lord Siva is the biggest of all at Bhubaneswar is located within a spacious compound wall of laterite measuring 520 feet by 465 feet. The wall is 7 feet 6 inches thick and surmounted by a plain slant coping. Alongside the inner face of the boundary wall there runs a terrace probably meant to protect the compound wall against outside aggression.[8] Madneswar Siva Temple Lord Siva 12th century It is a Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Siva built around 12th century. It is situated on the left side of the Mahavir Lane branching from Garage Chowk in Santarapur to Sisupalgarh. The enshrined deity is a Siva lingam within a circular yonipitha (basement). It is a broken shrine, and at present, only the Pabhaga portion is available. Mangalesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 14th century The Mangalesvara Siva Temple is located in the precinct of Papanasini tank and on the southern embankment of the tank. The temple faces east and the enshrined deity is a circular yonipitha. The Lingam is absent. The temple is 1.60 metres below the present road level. Mukteswar Temple Lord Siva 970 It is a 10th-century Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Siva. The temple dates back to 970, is a monument of singular importance in the study of the development of Hindu temples in Odisha. In this stylistic development the Mukteswara plays a pivotal role; it marks the culmination of all earlier developments, and initiates a period of experiment which continues for an entire century, as seen in such temples as the Rajarani Temple and Lingaraj temple, both located in Bhubaneswar.[9] Nagesvara Temple, Bhubaneswar Lord Siva It is a disused Hindu temple. It is situated on the western right bank of the Lingaraja West Canal at a distance of 10.35 metres (34.0 ft) west of Subarnesvara Siva Temple, located across the canal. Pabaneswara Temple Lord Siva 10th Century The presiding deity is a Sivalingam within a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum. It is a living temple. The temple is surrounded by private residential buildings and market complex on three sides and the road on the south. The temple was rebuilt or renovated sometimes back as it appears from the second phase of building from above the pabhaga. Parsurameswar Temple Lord Siva 650 It is the best preserved specimen of an early Hindu temple datable to the Sailodbhava period of the seventh and eighth centuries.[10] Parsurameswar is dedicated to Lord Shiva and is one of the oldest temples in Odisha. This temple, built about 650, has all the main features of the pre-10th century Odishan style of architecture. Such elements such as the pine spire that curves up to a point over the sanctum housing the presiding deity, and the pyramid-covered hall where people sit and pray. Though small in size, with its deul rising abruptly to a height of 12.80m, it is one of the most sumptuously decorated temples of the early period. It is the only temple of the early period with a surviving Jagamohana.[11] Purvesvara Siva Temple Lord Siva 13th-14th century The enshrining deity is a broken Lingam within a circular Yonipitha at the centre of the sanctum, which is 1.07 metres below the present ground level. It is a living temple and now under the care and maintenance of Purvesvara Temple Development Association of that locality. The caretaker of the temple is Dipu Panigrahi. According to local tradition, the presiding deity is known as Purvesvara as it is situated towards the east of Lingaraj. Rajarani Temple Lord Siva 11th century It is an 11th-century Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Siva. Originally it was known as Indreswara, and serves as a shrine to Shiva. It is known as 'love temple',[12] covered with coyly erotic carvings of women and couples. The temple is aesthetically endearing with its graceful sculptures.[13] Ram Mandir, Janpath Lord Ram 20th century It is a temple housing beautiful images of Lord Rama, Lord Lakshman, and Goddess Sita. The high rising spire of the main temple visible from many parts of the capital city, is its main attraction. Built and managed by a private trust, the temple complex also comprises shrines devoted to ochre-painted marble idols of Lord Hanuman, Lord Shiva and other gods. Rameshwar Deula Lord Shiva 9th century Legend goes as when Rama was returning from Lanka after victory over Ravana, Goddess Sita asked to worship Shiva here. So Ramachandra built a Linga for that purpose. Traditionally during Ashokashtami, which falls one day before to Rama Navami in Chaitra Lord Lingaraja comes to this temple by a large chariot called 'Rukuna Rath and stays for four days. Historically the temple dates back to 9th century. Sarvatresvara Siva Temple Lord Shiva 10th century A.D. It enshrines a Siva-lingam within a circular yonipitha inside the sanctum. It is a living temple and Bibhuti Bhusan Das is the chief priest of the temple. As per the chief priest it is a Patalaphuta linga. The temple precinct is located on the right bank of the stream Gangua. Satrughaneswara temple Lord Shiva 6th century A.D. Built during Sailodbhava Rule in later half of 6th century, it is one of the oldest temples of Bhubaneswar.[14] Sivatirtha Matha It is a Hindu Matha(monastery) in the outskirts of old town of Bhubaneswar and is known for Chandan Yatra and Dola purnima. Dola Purnima is celebrated in the belief that Lord Lingaraja arrives to this Matha to take pankti bhogo(community lunch)on Dola Purnima. Subarnesvara Siva Temple Lord Shiva 10th century A.D. It is situated on the left bank of Lingaraja west canal, which can be approached through Kotitirthesvara lane leading from Parasuramesvar temple to Bindu sagar. It stands opposite to Nagesvara across the Lingaraja west canal at a distance of 10.35 metres. The temple faces east. The enshrined deity is a Siva lingam within a circular yoni pitha in the sanctum measuring 2.35 square metres, which is 1.20 metres below the chandrasila of the door. Suka Temple Lord Shiva It is abandoned and not in use. The temple is devoted to saptaratha and the presence of female counterparts of the dikpalas in the upara jangha. This was built in the matured phase of temple building tradition of Odisha. Sukutesvara Temple Lord Shiva It is serves as purpose for community gathering. The preceding deity in this temple is a Siva- lingam (Lord Shiva) situated at the centre. The temple observes various religious sacraments like Mahasivaratri, Chandipatha, and Rudrabhisekha. Svapnesvara Siva Temple Lord Shiva It is close to the Purvesvara Siva temple. The temple faces east. The Sanctum of the temple is empty that measures 2.00 square m. Talesvara Siva Temple Lord Shiva The Talesvara Siva temple is a Hindu temple. It is a living temple that means people use it in worshiping purpose. Uttaresvara Siva Temple Lord Shiva Uttaresvara Siva temple is located within a precinct in the northern embankment of Bindusagar tank in the Nalamuhana Sahi, Kedara-Gouri Chowk, Old Town, Bhubaneswar. The enshrining deity in this temple is a Siva lingam within a circular yoni pitha at the centre of sanctum. The original temple has collapsed, as evident from the renovation work above the pabhaga and presence of cult images of earlier phase in different parts of the temple walls without conforming to the canonical prescriptions. Vaital Deula Lord Shiva 9th Century A.D. Vaital Deul Temple’s striking feature is the shape of its sanctuary tower. The semi-cylindrical shape of its roof a leading example of khakhara order of temples--bears an affinity to the Dravidian Gopuram of the South India temples. Its gabbled towers with a row of shikaras reveals unmistakable sings of southern intrusion.[15] Vishnu Temple, Bhubaneswar Lord Vishnu 12th Century A.D. It is situated on the eastern embankment of Bindu Sagar at Talabazar, on the right side of the Talabazar road leading from Lingaraj temple to Kedara-Gouri lane. The temple faces west and the Sanctum is presently used for storage purposes. The sculptural embellishment on the outer wall and the parsavadevatas in raha niche suggests that the temple was originally dedicated to Vishnu. Yameshwar Temple 20°14′25″N 85°49′53″E﻿ / ﻿20.24028°N 85.83139°E﻿ / 20.24028; 85.83139﻿ (Yameshwar Temple) Yama 12th Century The main Vimana is of Rekha Deula, Jagamohana is of Pidha Deula. Many portions of the temple are destroyed by natural calamities as the temple is built by sandstone. The outer Prakara is built of laterite. The icons around the temple include many motifs like serpents, amorous images, animals, Dikpalas etc. The inner Garbhagriha houses Shivalinga. The building time of the temple is late 12th century during the Eastern Ganga dynasty."
Highest partnerships for each wicket
Narendra Hirwani – 16/136 v West Indies at Chennai on 11 January 1988.
Bowling records
Most wickets
Anil Kumble – 619 wickets
Best bowling figures in an innings
Anil Kumble – 10/74 v Pakistan at Delhi on 4 February 1999.
Best bowling figures in a match
Best career economy rate
Bapu Nadkarni – 1.63
Best career strike rate
Ravichandran Ashwin – 49.4
Best economy rate in an innings
"Bapu Nadkarni – 0.15 (32 overs, 27 maidens, 5 runs, 0wickets) v England at Chennai on 10 January 1964. (World Record)"
This page details India national cricket team records.
ODI records
Head to Head records with other teams
Overall
Test records
Team records
Highest match aggregate runs
Lowest match aggregate runs
Largest Victories
Smallest Victories
Most extras conceded in an innings
Individual records
Most Runs in an inning (Test)
Virender Sehwag – 319
Most matches as captain
Most Mathches
Sachin Tendulkar- 200 (World Record)
Batting records
Most career runs
Sachin Tendulkar – 15921 runs (World Record)
Most balls faced in test cricket
"Rahul Dravid - 31,258 (World Record)"
Highest score
Virender Sehwag – 319 runs v South Africa at Chennai on March 2008
Best debut score
Shikhar Dhawan – 187 runs v Australia at Mohali on 15 March 2013.
Partnership records
Highest partnerships by runs
The touring Indian team
"An Indian cricket team toured England in the 1932 season under the title of the ""All-India"" team. This was the second tour of England by an Indian team, following the first in 1911. One Test match was played at Lord's Cricket Ground. This was the first Test match ever played by India. England won by 158 runs after scoring 259 and 275-8 declared while India was bowled out for 189 and 187."
"The Indians played 36 matches in all, including 26 first-class fixtures. The team won 9 first-class matches, drew 9 and lost 8. Captained by the Maharaja of Porbandar, the team's outstanding batsman was the right-handed CK Nayudu, who played in all the first-class matches, scoring 1,618 runs at an average of 40.45. In the 1933 Wisden, he was selected as one of the five Cricketers of the Year. The team also had a fine pair of opening bowlers in Amar Singh (111 wickets in first-class matches at 20.37) and Mohammad Nissar (71 wickets at 18.09)."
Only Test match
Annual reviews
Further reading
In the first match Kenya scored the lowest Twenty20 International total of 73 against New Zealand and went on to lose with 12.2 overs and 9 wickets to spare. Kenya's fate was sealed when they allowed Sri Lanka to post a Twenty20 world record of 260 in the group's second match. Kenya were then bowled out for 88 and lost by a record 172 runs.
Group E
India and Pakistan played in the first ever World Twenty20 bowl-out. India's bowlers defeated Pakistan 3-0.
Super 8s
"This tournament's Super Eight format was designed such that the top 2 seeds from each group was pre-decided at the start of the tournament. The actual performance of the team in the Group Stage played no role in determining if the team qualified into Super Eight Group E or F. For example, in Group C, though Sri Lanka finished with more points than New Zealand, for the purpose of the Super Eight groupings, New Zealand retained the group's top seed position (C1) while Sri Lanka retained the group's second seed position (C2)."
Group F
"India won the toss and chose to bat on what was considered to be a traditionally batsman-friendly pitch at the Bullring.[10] Umar Gul took the wickets of both Yuvraj Singh and Mahendra Singh Dhoni, leaving India with 157/5 in 20 overs; only Gautam Gambhir (75 from 54 balls) produced a notable innings. A 21-run over from Sreesanth swung the game towards Pakistan. However, Irfan Pathan and Joginder Sharma slowed the scoring dramatically. With Pakistan needing 54 from 24 balls, Misbah-ul-Haq hit 3 sixes off Harbhajan Singh in one over. Sreesanth was also dispatched for 2 sixes but took the wicket of Sohail Tanvir, as Pakistan went into the last over needing 13 runs to win, with only 1 wicket remaining. Joginder Sharma bowled a wide first ball, followed by a dot ball. Misbah followed by taking six off a full-toss; Pakistan needed just 6 runs to win from the last four balls. Misbah attempted to hit the next ball with a paddle-scoop over fine leg, but he only managed to sky the ball, and it was caught at short fine-leg by Sreesanth, leaving Pakistan all out for 152 runs. Irfan Pathan was awarded the Man of the Match for his spell, which included 3 wickets for 16 runs, including that of Man of the Series, Shahid Afridi."
Records and statistics
"The 2007 ICC World Twenty20 was the inaugural Twenty20 cricket world championship, contested in South Africa from 11 to 24 September 2007. Twelve teams took part in the thirteen-day tournament—the ten Test-playing nations and the finalists of the 2007 WCL Division One tournament: Kenya and Scotland. India won the tournament, beating Pakistan in the final.[2]"
Rules and regulations
ICC World T20 2007 BAN vs RSA
"During the group stage and Super Eight, points were awarded to the teams as follows:"
Results Points Win 2 points No Result 1 point Loss 0 points
"In case of a tie (i.e., both teams score exactly the same number of runs at the end of their respective innings), a bowl-out decided the winner. This was applicable in all stages of the tournament.[3] The bowl-out was used to determine the result of only one game in this tournament - the Group D game between India and Pakistan on 14 September (scorecard)."
"Within each group (both group stage and Super Eight stage), teams were ranked against each other based on the following criteria:[4]"
"Higher number of points If equal, higher number of wins If still equal, higher net run rate If still equal, lower bowling strike rate If still equal, result of head to head meeting."
Qualification
"By finishing first and second in the 2007 WCL Division One, Kenya and Scotland qualified for the World Twenty20.[5]"
Squads
Group Stages
The 12 participant teams were divided into four groups of three teams each. The groups were determined based on the rankings of the teams in Twenty20 as of 1 March 2007.[6] The top two teams from each group went through to the second stage of the tournament.[7]
Group A
Group A saw the only exit of a seeded team when the West Indies were eliminated after losing both their matches. Their first loss came after Chris Gayle's record 117 runs was not enough to prevent South Africa from winning.
"Group B started with World Champions Australia being defeated by Zimbabwe, Brendan Taylor scored 64 (not out) and saw the Africans home with one ball to spare."
Group C
Group D
Super Eight stage
"The seedings used are those allocated at the start of the tournament and are not affected by group stage results, with the exception that if a non-seeded team knocks out a seeded team, the non-seeded team inherits the seeding of the knocked-out team.[10]"
Group 1
Group 2
Semi-finals
"After Chris Gayle, who had decimated Australia in the semifinals, was dismissed for just 3 to leave the West Indies at 2-14 after 5.5 overs, Marlon Samuels produced 78 from 55 balls, including the longest six of the tournament at 108 meters. Captain Darren Sammy also led a late charge that produced 108 runs in the latter 10 overs to set Sri Lanka a target of 138. They then restricted Sri Lanka to 39/1 after eight overs, produced two run outs and held each Sri Lankan batsman to no more than 33 (posted by captain Mahela Jayawardene). Nuwan Kulasekara mustered a brief fightback (26 runs from 16 balls) but holed out to leave the tail end exposed, and Sri Lanka was soon all out 36 runs short. Samuels earned Man of the Match honors for being the top-scoring batsman on either side while also taking 1-15 in his four overs of bowling."
"The 2012 ICC World Twenty20 was the fourth ICC World Twenty20 competition, an international Twenty20 cricket tournament that took place in Sri Lanka from 18 September to 7 October 2012 which was won by the West Indies.[2][3][4][5] The schedule has been posted by International Cricket Council (ICC). This is the first World Twenty20 tournament held in an Asian country, the last three having been held in South Africa, England and the West Indies. Sri Lankan pacer Lasith Malinga has been chosen as the event ambassador of the tournament by ICC.[6] The format has four groups of three teams in a preliminary round. India and England are in the same group and were joined by the runner up of the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier, Afghanistan. The champions of the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier, Ireland, are in a group with West Indies and Australia. Sri Lanka, South Africa and Zimbabwe, and Pakistan, New Zealand and Bangladesh are the other two groups.[7]"
Background
"The 2012 World Twenty20 is the fourth edition of the Twenty20 tournament. The first was hosted by South Africa in 2007, where India beat Pakistan in a thriller to become Twenty20 champions. Pakistan, the losing finalists in 2007, defeated Sri Lanka in 2009 tournament to become World T20 Champions, held in England. In 2010 England became the third World Twenty20 champions by beating Australia in the West Indies.[9]"
"The format is the same as the 2010 edition. The format has four groups of three in a preliminary round, groups A-D. In addition to the ten test cricket playing nations, there are two associate/affiliate teams who qualified from the 2012 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier staged in the United Arab Emirates on 13–14 March 2012."
"Earlier, the ICC development committee had expanded the global qualification system for the World Twenty20, to give the Associate and Affiliate members of the governing body a chance to feature in the tournament. The qualification tournament, which was contested by eight teams in February 2010, featured 16 sides when it was held in early 2012 ahead of the World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka, later that year."
Group C
2012 ICC World Twenty20
Fixtures and results
"There are 27 matches to be played during the ICC World Twenty20, 12 in group stages, 12 in Super Eights, two Semi-finals and a final.[13][14]"
Warm-up matches
12 warm-up matches were played between 13 and 19 September featuring all 12 teams.[15]
Group B
"US$250,000 – To each team exiting after the quarter-finals (4 teams) US$500,000 – Fourth placed team US$500,000 – Third placed team US$1,500,000 – Runner up US$3,250,000 – Winner"
Venues
Umpires
"The following 14 warm-up matches were played before the World Cup started.[46][47] For statistical purposes, these matches are not considered to be One Day Internationals."
Squads
"Each country chose a 30-member preliminary squad, which would then be reduced to 15. All the 14 teams announced their final squads before 19 January 2011."
Warm-up matches
Group stage
Group A
The top four teams from each group qualified for the quarter-finals (indicated in green).
The top four teams from each group qualified for the Quarter finals (indicated in green).
Group B
Semi-finals
Quarter-finals
Final
Statistics
Controversies
"Bangladeshi fans threw rocks at the West Indies team bus as it returned players to their hotel after their win over Bangladesh in Dhaka on 4 March. It was later claimed that the rock-throwers had confused the bus with the Bangladesh team bus.[48] The elite Rapid Action Battalion of Bangladesh arrested 38 people after the attack, and the West Indies later received an apology.[49] The political party Shiv Sena threatened to disrupt the final in Mumbai if the Pakistani team qualified.[50] During the group stage match between India and England, Ian Bell was given not out for leg before wicket despite the ball hitting him in line with the wickets and being on a path to hit the stumps. India captain MS Dhoni referred the decision to the TV umpire, who confirmed the original decision as the ball had struck Bell at a point more than 2.5 m (8 ft 2 in) from the stumps, a point at which the reliability of the Hawk-Eye system diminishes below acceptable levels. Dhoni later complained that the rule had deprived his side of what seemed like an obvious wicket.[51] The rules were subsequently revised and the umpires were given new guidelines.[52] The Sri Lankan captain, Kumar Sangakkara, later criticised the decision to alter the 2.5-metre rule while a tournament was in progress.[53] In the final between India and Sri Lanka, loud crowd noise prevented match referee Jeff Crowe from hearing Sri Lankan captain Sangakkara's call as the coin was tossed by Indian captain Dhoni. The toss had to be redone – an extremely unusual event, especially at as prominent an event as the World Cup final.[54]"
References and notes
See also
"The 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup was the tenth Cricket World Cup. It was played in India, Sri Lanka, and (for the first time) Bangladesh. India won the tournament, defeating Sri Lanka by 6 wickets in the final in Mumbai, thus becoming the first country to win the Cricket World Cup final on home soil.[1][2] India's Yuvraj Singh was declared the man of the tournament.[3] This was the first time in World Cup history that two Asian teams had appeared in the final. It was also the first time since the 1992 World Cup that the final match did not feature Australia."
"All the matches were One Day Internationals, and all were played over 50 overs. Fourteen national cricket teams took part, including 10 full members and four associate members of the ICC.[4] The opening ceremony was held on 17 February 2011 at Bangabandhu National Stadium, Dhaka,[5] and the tournament was played between 19 February and 2 April. The first match was played between India and Bangladesh at the Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium in Mirpur, Dhaka.[6]"
Format
"Late in 2007, the four host nations agreed on a revised format for the 2011 World Cup, identical to that of the 1996 World Cup, except that there would be 14 teams instead of 12. The first round of the tournament would consist of two groups of seven teams. Each team in a group would play all the others once, and the top four from each group would qualify for the quarter-finals.[16] This ensured that every team would play at least six matches."
Qualification
"As per ICC regulations, all 10 full members automatically qualify for the World Cup, including Zimbabwe who have given up their Test playing status until the standard of their team improves.[17]"
List of qualified teams
The following 14 teams qualified for the final tournament.
Preparations
Fireworks at the world cup opening ceremony
Pakistan loses co-host status
"In April 2009 the ICC announced that Pakistan had lost its right to co-host the 2011 World Cup because of concerns about the ""uncertain security situation"" in the country, especially in the aftermath of the 2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team in Lahore.[19][20] The PCB estimated that this would lose them $10.5 million.[21] This figure took account only of the fees of $750,000 per match guaranteed by the ICC. The overall loss to the PCB and the Pakistani economy were expected to be much greater."
Song
"The official song of the 2011 Cricket World Cup has three versions, in Bengali, Hindi, and Sinhala, corresponding to the three host countries.[37] ""De Ghuma Ke"" (Swing It Hard) is the Hindi version, composed by the trio of Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy.[38] It employs an array of Indian rhythms combined with elements of rock and hip hop. The Sinhala version, ""Sinha Udaane"", was adapted by Sri Lankan R&B and hip hop artist Ranidu Lankage and composed by lyricist Shehan Galahitiyawa.[37] Both songs were performed at the opening ceremony. ""Sinha Udaane"" was performed by Lankage.[39]"
Mascot
"Stumpy, a young elephant, was the official mascot for the 2011 Cricket World Cup.[40] He was unveiled at a function in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on 2 April 2010,[41] and his name was revealed on 2 August 2010 after an online competition conducted by the ICC in the last week of July.[42]"
Opening ceremony
"The opening ceremony was held in the Bangabandhu National Stadium in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on 17 February 2011, two days before the first match."
Prize money
"The 2011 Cricket World Cup winning team would be taking home a prize money of US$3 million and US$1.5 million for runner-up, with the International Cricket Council deciding to double the total allocation for the tournament to US$8.01 million. The winning team will also take home a replica of the ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy, that has been awarded since 1999. The decision was taken at the ICC Board meeting which was held in Dubai on April 20, 2010.[43]"
"Samosa Pav in Mumbai. Hot Samosa stuffed in Pav, a sweetened bread."
"Burmese-style samusa are flat and triangular, and usually smaller than their Indian counterparts."
"In Hyderabad, India, a smaller version of the samosa with a thicker pastry crust and mince-meat filling, referred to as lukhmi, is consumed, as is another variation with an onion filling."
Bangladesh
"Both flat-shaped and full-shaped samosas are popular snacks in Bangladesh. The Bengali version of the full-shaped samosa is called a shingara and is normally much smaller than the standard Indian variety. The shingara is usually filled with pieced potatoes and vegetables, however, shingaras filled with beef liver, are very popular in some parts of the country. The flat-shaped samosa is called a somucha and is usually filled with onions and minced meat."
Nepal
"Samosas are called singadas in Eastern Zone of Nepal rest of the of country calls it Samosa. As in India, it is a very popular snack in Nepalese cuisine. Vendors sell the dish in various markets and restaurants."
Pakistan
"Samosas of various types are available all over Pakistan. In general, most samosa varieties sold in the southern Sindh province and in the eastern Punjab, especially the city of Lahore, are spicier and mostly contain vegetable or potato-based fillings. On the other hand, the samosas sold in the west and north of the country mostly contain minced meat-based fillings and are comparatively less spicy. The meat samosa contains minced meat (lamb, beef or chicken) and are very popular as snack food in Pakistan."
Maldives
"In Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Xinjiang, samosas are known as samsas. They are almost always baked and never fried. The traditional samsa is often baked in the tandoor, which is a special clay oven. The dough can be a simple bread dough, or a layered pastry dough. The most common filling for traditional samsa is a mixture of minced lamb and onions, but chicken, minced beef, and cheese varieties are also quite common from street vendors. Samosas with other fillings, such as potato or pumpkin (usually only when in season), can also be found."
"In the Maldives, the types and varrities of samosa made in Maldivian cuisine is known as bajiyaa. It is filled with a mixture, which includes fish or tuna and onions.[14]"
Central Asia
Uyghur-style samsas (samosas)
Southeast Asia
Burma
"Samosas are called samusas in Burmese, and are an extremely popular snack in Burma."
Horn of Africa
Somali sambusas being deep-fried
"Filled and cut samsa ready to be baked in Karakol, Kyrgyzstan."
Indonesia
"The local equivalent of samosas in Indonesia are known as pastel. They are usually filled with eggs, minced beef or chicken."
Israel
"In Israel, a sambusak is a semi-circular pocket of dough filled with mashed chickpeas, fried onions and spices. There is another variety filled with meat, fried onions, parsley, spices and pine nuts, which is sometimes mixed with mashed chickpeas and breakfast version with feta or tzfat cheese and za'atar. It is associated with Mizrahi Jewish cuisine. An Israeli sambusak is not as spicy as the Indian version.[15] According to Gil Marks, an Israeli food historian, sambusak has been a traditional part of the Sephardic Sabbath meal since the thirteenth century.[16]"
"Samosas are a staple of local cuisine in the Horn of Africa (Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia), where they are known as sambusa. While they can be eaten any time of the year, they are usually reserved for special occasions, such as Ramadan, Eid Al-Fitr, Eid Al-Adha and weddings."
Portuguese-speaking regions
Goan chamuças
English-speaking regions
"Samosas are popular in Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, South Africa, Kenya and Tanzania, and are also growing in popularity in the United Kingdom, Canada,[17][18] and the United States. They may be called samboosa or sambusac, but in South Africa, they are often called samoosa.[19] Frozen samosas are increasingly available from grocery stores in Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom. At McGill University in Montreal, samosas are seen as a staple of students' diets and are accordingly used as a common fundraising item daily.[20][21]"
References
External links
"A samosa (/səˈmoʊsə/), or samoosa, is a fried or baked dish with a savoury filling, such as spiced potatoes, onions, peas, lentils, macaroni, noodles or minced meat (lamb, beef or chicken).[1] Pine nuts can also be added. Its size and consistency may vary, but typically it is distinctly triangular or tetrahedral in shape. Indian samosas are usually vegetarian, and often accompanied by a mint sauce chutney.[2][3][unreliable source?] Samosas are a popular entrée, appetizer or snack in the local cuisines of the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, Southwest Asia, the Arabian Peninsula, the Mediterranean, the Horn of Africa , East Africa, North Africa and South Africa Due to cultural diffusion and emigration from these areas, samosas in today's world are also prepared in other regions."
Name variation
"Samosa (/səˈmoʊsə/; Punjabi: ਸਮੋਸਾ smosa, Sanskrit: शृङ्गाटकं śr̥ṅgāṭakaṁ,[4] Bengali: িসনগাড়া, Singara, Hindi: समोसा, Manipuri: Singhara, Nepali: समोसा, translit. Singoda, Urdu: سموسہ‎) is generally used in the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. Other names are used in other areas (Arabic: سمبوسك‎‎ sambūsak, Sinhalese: සමොසා, Hebrew: סמבוסק‎‎ sambusak, Gujarati: સમોસા samosa, Kannada: ಸಮೋಸಾ samosa, Malayalam: സമോസ, Marathi: सामोसा, Persian: سمبوسه‎‎, Tamil: சமோசா, Telugu: సమోసా, Urdu: سموسه‎ samosa, samsa (pronounced [ˈsamsə]), Sylheti: ছমছা Somosa or somsa in Turkic Central Asia (Kazakh: самса, [sɑmsɑ́], Kyrgyz: самса, [sɑ́msɑ], Uzbek: 'somsa', [sɒmsa], Uyghur: سامسا‎, [sɑmsɑ́]) and Turkey (Turkish: samsa böreği), sambusa (among Arabs, the Swahili, Djiboutians, Eritreans, Ethiopians, Somalis (Somali: sambuus) and Tajiks (Tajik: самбӯса)), sanbusé (Persian: سنبوسه‎‎; among Iranians), samosha (Burmese: စမူဆာ, IPA: [sʰəmùzà]; among Burmese), sambosa ([sam͡bosḁ]; among the Malagasy) or chamuça (among the Portuguese-speaking world)."
Vegetable Samosa
"In eastern India, a similar dish is called Singara, Bengali: সিঙাড়া shingara, Sylheti: সিঙারা shingara sing-ra in Assamese, Odia: ଶିଙ୍ଗଡା shingada."
Etymology
"The word ""samosa"" can be traced to the sanbosag (Persian: سنبوساگ‎‎).[5] The pastry name in other countries can also derive from this root, such as the crescent-shaped sanbusak or sanbusaj in the Arab World, sambosa in Afghanistan, samosa in India, (Sindhi: سمبوسو Samboso/sambosa‎), samboosa in Tajikistan, samsa by Turkic-speaking nations, sambusa in the Horn of Africa, and chamuça in Goa, Mozambique and Portugal.[citation needed] While they are currently referred to as sambusak in the Arabic-speaking world, Medieval Arabic recipe books sometimes spell it sambusaj.[6]"
"Preparation of wada for the Sultan Ghiyath al-Din, the Sultan of Mandu. Samosas being prepared. Small inscription 'sanbusa', samosa. Ghiyath Shahi seated on a stool in a garden is being offered a dish, possibly of samosas. A cook is frying them over a stove, while another is placing them on a round dish."
"Samosas were introduced to the Indian subcontinent in the 13th or 14th century by traders from Central Asia.[5] Amir Khusro (1253–1325), a scholar and the royal poet of the Delhi Sultanate, wrote in around 1300 that the princes and nobles enjoyed the ""samosa prepared from meat, ghee, onion and so on"".[10] Ibn Battuta, a 14th-century traveler and explorer, describes a meal at the court of Muhammad bin Tughluq, where the samushak or sambusak, a small pie stuffed with minced meat, almonds, pistachios, walnuts and spices, was served before the third course, of pulao.[11] The Ain-i-Akbari, a 16th-century Mughal document, mentions the recipe for qutab, which it says, “the people of Hindustan call sanbúsah”.[12]"
Regional varieties
Regions where the dish serves as a staple of local cuisine have different ways of preparing it.
South Asia
"Samosas being fried at a road-side restaurant in Raipur, India"
"Naiyya is 1979 Hindi language movie directed by Prashanta Nanda and starring Prashanta Nanda himself, Zarina Wahab."
"Naiyya is a remake of a very successful Odia language movie Shesha Shrabana. The Odia movie is also directed by Prashanta Nanda, and starring himself and Mahaswata Roy."
"Lakhipur is a small community along the river banks of the holy river Ganges, where Sonu lives with his ailing mother. One day he rescues a woman named Geeta and brings her home with him. He and his mom look after her while she recuperates and find out that she comes from a wealthy family. When she gets better, he takes her home, only to find out that she is no longer welcome there by her paternal uncle and his wife, Ramkali, leaving him with no alternative but to take her home with him. His mom would like Geeta to get married to Sonu, but before she could arrange this, she passes away, leaving Sonu and Geeta to live together - and being shunned by the entire community - who would like Geeta to leave. Sonu then starts to find a suitable groom for her, and does find one when a doctor comes to their community to treat victims of plague, the doctor agrees to marry Geeta, but on the day of the marriage does not show up. A distraught Sonu must now find why the doctor did not fulfill his promise - in the midst of the community threatening to boycott him and possibly burning his brand new boat. (Courtesy: IMDB)"
"The film also has a very melodious song O Goriya re[1] sung by Yesudas, music composed by Ravindra Jain."
Songs
Ravindra Jain has composed songs for this film.
O Goriya Re - Yesudas Beparwaa Bedardi - Hemalata Oonchi Neechi Lehron Ke - Yesudas&Chorus Mera Joban Bandha Rupaiya - Hemalata Geeta Raani - Yesudas & Suresh Wadkar
"Bijaganita was Indian mathematician Bhāskara II's treatise on algebra. It is the second volume of his main work Siddhānta Shiromani, Sanskrit for ""Crown of treatises,""[1] alongside Lilāvati, Grahaganita and Golādhyāya.[2][3]"
Contents
"The book is divided into six parts, mainly indeterminate equations, quadratic equations, simple equations, surds. The contents are:"
Introduction On Simple Equations On Quadratic Equations On Equations involving indeterminate Questions of the 1st Degree On Equations involving indeterminate Questions of the 2nd Degree On Equations involving Rectangles
"In Bijaganita Bhāskara II refined Jayadeva's way of generalization of Brahmagupta's approach to solving indeterminate quadratic equations, including Pell's equation which is known as chakravala method or cyclic method. Bijaganita is the first text to recognize that a positive number has two square roots"
Translations
The translations or editions of the Bijaganita into English include:
Two notable Scholars from Varanasi Sudhakar Dwivedi and Bapudeva Sastri studied Bijaganita in the nineteenth century.
Balwinder Singh Sandhu  pronunciation (help·info) (born 3 August 1956) is a former Indian Test cricketer. He represented India in eight Test matches as a medium pace bowler who could swing the ball and was a useful batsman.
"A late starter in cricket, Sandhu's break came when he was spotted during a summer coaching camp by the former first class cricketer Yeshwant 'Baba' Sidhaye. Next year, he came under the influence of the famous coach Ramakant Achrekar and later the Ranji player Hemu Dalvi."
"Sandhu's chance in first class cricket came in 1980-81 when Karsan Ghavri, the regular opening bowler for Bombay, was away with the national side. Sandhu did not play in the first two matches of the season but then his debut against Gujarat where he claimed nine wickets. He was not part of the side to play in the final against Delhi that season, but was included at the last moment when the originally chosen Ravi Kulkarni dropped out. In a sensational spell, he reduced Delhi to 18-5 on the first morning and finished with nine wickets in the match. His 25 wickets in the season came at an average of 18.72."
"Early in the 1982-83 season, in the Duleep Trophy match for West Zone against South he took eight wickets and scored 56 while batting at No.11. Another five wicket haul in the Irani Trophy put him in the Indian team that toured Pakistan."
"Following a heel bone injury to Madan Lal, Sandhu made his debut in the fourth Test at Hyderabad. His first two wickets came off successive balls when he dismissed Mohsin Khan and Haroon Rashid. Those were India's only successes for a long time as Javed Miandad and Mudassar Nazar then went about setting a world record partnership. Sandhu scored 71 quick runs batting at No.9."
"He scored 68 in the first innings at Bridgetown against West Indies following an Indian collapse. In the next Test, his opening spell reduced West Indies to three down for one run."
"Sandhu played a significant role in the Indian team that won the 1983 World Cup. Batting at No.11 in the final, he put on 22 runs with Syed Kirmani during which he was hit on his head by a bouncer. Later he famously clean bowled Gordon Greenidge with a huge inswinger to which the batsman had shouldered arms. His last Test was also against West Indies later that year at Ahmedabad. He took a single wicket in that match, which was the only that was missed by Kapil Dev who took 9 for 83 in the same innings. Thereafter he did little in any form of cricket. His 98 against Tamil Nadu was important in Bombay taking the first innings lead in the Ranji semifinal of 1984-85."
"He served as the coach of Mumbai and Punjab, and worked with the National Cricket Academy. In the 1990s he played club cricket in Kenya and did some coaching there."
"He was associated with the Indian Cricket League (ICL) for some time. He lives at Neelkanth Gardens in Govandi near Chembur, Mumbai. He has two daughters."
Nayan Ramlal Mongia  pronunciation (help·info) (born 19 December 1969 in Baroda) is a former Indian cricketer. He was a right-handed batsman and a wicketkeeper.
"When he first toured England in 1990, he impressed Alan Knott, who claimed Mongia was a natural. Having spent many years as India's second wicketkeeper after Kiran More, Mongia first made it into the team in the mid-1990s and was from then on the number one choice for wicketkeeper."
"Mongia has a highest Test score of 152, which came against Australia cricket team in the one-off Test at Delhi in 1996-97 when he opened the batting. He was dropped from the team after dissent and allegations of match-fixing.[1] Mongia retired from first class cricket in December 2004.[2]"
"In 183 first-class matches for Baroda cricket team and West Zone cricket team making his debut in November 1989. He took 353 catches and 43 stumpings and scored over 7000 runs. In international cricket, Mongia played 44 Tests ending his Test career in an epic Kolkata Test against Australia cricket team in March 2001.[3]"
Coaching career
"In 2004, he was named as a coach of Thailand national cricket team. He was coach for 2004 ACC Trophy in Malaysia. Along with national team, Mongia was also named coach of Thailand national under-19 cricket team as well.[4]"
Mongia holds the record for most catches in a test match (8-twice) by an Indian Wicket-keeper.[5] He also shares with M.S. Dhoni the record for most dismissals (includes stumpings) by an Indian Wicket-keeper in a Test (8).
"Budhisagar Krishnappa Kunderan(Tulu: ಬುಧಿಸಾಗರ ಕೃಷ್ಣಪ್ಪ ಕುಂದೆರನ್ )  pronunciation (help·info) (2 October 1939 in Mulky, near Mangalore in Karnataka – 23 June 2006 in Glasgow, Scotland) was an Indian cricketer. He played as a wicket keeper for the most of his career, and was an exciting but unorthodox right-handed batsman."
"Budhi Kunderan made his first appearance in first class cricket for the Cricket Club of India against the touring West Indies in 1958-59. After just two first class matches, he was picked to play Test cricket for India against Australia in the next year. Through the fifties India had wicket keepers of about the same quality in Naren Tamhane, Probir Sen and Nana Joshi. Joshi and Tamhane had already been tried when Kunderan got his chance in the third Test. Kunderan got out hit wicket on his first appearance while attempting to pull Ian Meckiff but scored 71 and 33 in his next Test."
The Indian selectors dropped both Kunderan and Engineer from the next series against Australia and instead went for K. S. Indrajitsinhji. Engineer was then recalled for the New Zealand series that followed while Kunderan played as an opening batsman in the place of injured Dilip Sardesai.
"In 1965, Kunderan left his job in the Railways and appeared for Mysore and the South Zone. A side effect of this was that he was able to keep wickets to the bowling of Chandrasekhar, Prasanna and Venkatraghavan in domestic matches. Recalled against West Indies in 1966-67, Kunderan scored 79 in 92 minutes in the Bombay Test. Early on in the innings, he appeared to have been caught by Garry Sobers but as the batsman prepared to depart, Sobers indicated that he had taken the catch on the bounce. One Test later, Kunderan again found himself out of the team."
"The team that toured England in 1967 included both Kunderan and Engineer, but from here Engineer asserted himself as the primary 'keeper. Kunderan played purely as a batsman in the second and third Tests of the series. When Sardesai retired with a hand injury in the Lord's Test, he opened with Engineer and topscored with 47 out of India's 110 allout. He opened both batting and bowling at Birmingham where India played four spinners. This was to be Kunderan's last Test."
Budhi Kunderan died from lung cancer at the age of 66.
Notes
"Since Kunderan's 525 runs against England in 1963-64, two other wicket keepers have scored more than 500 runs in a Test series - Denis Lindsay, 606 for South Africa v Australia in 1966-67 and Andy Flower, 540 for Zimbabwe v India in 2000-01."
"The Konark Express was one of the classless superfast trains introduced by Shri Madhu Dandavate in the 1978 as a daily service between (SC)Secunderabad and Bhubaneshwar(BBS). It used to run with train No 2119/2120 and shared rake with the 2101/2102 Minar Superfast Express which used to operate between Secunderabad and Bombay VT (now CSTM). This train initially had the Navy Blue livery with a white strip above its windows due to this rake sharing arrangement. With increase in demand of an exclusive train between Bombay and Bhubaneshwar, this train was extended up to Bombay VT in 1994 thus ending the rake sharing arrangement between 2101/2102 Minar Express (which was later replaced by the 2701/02 Hussainsagar Express). After extension this train was renumbered as 1019/1020 in the year 1994. It is one of the oldest trains connecting the eastern and western states of the country.Currently operating as 11019/11020 , it connects Mumbai Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CSTM) to Bhubaneshwar (BBS)."
Route
"Major halts on the way are Dadar, Kalyan, Lonavala, Pune, Daund, Solapur, Gulbarga, Secunderabad, Kazipet, Warangal, Mahbubabad, Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajamundry, Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Palasa and Berhampur and Khurda Road.[1]"
Incidents
"On 31 July 2008, two people were injured when two coaches and the engine of Konark Express derailed at Gangapur Station near Gulbarga. The cause of the derailment is yet unknown.[2]"
"Dhauli Express[1][2] is an odia movie written & directed by Chittaranjan Triparthy.[3] it features Samaresh Routray, Mihir Das, Siddhanta Mahapatra, Anu Choudhury, Aparajita Mohanty.The film is produced by Chittaranjan Triparthy. it also won the Odisha State Film Award for Best Film in 2007."
Cast
Siddhanta Mahapatra... As... Jaga Bhai Samaresh Routray... As... Dhauli Das Mihir Das... As... Dibkar Das Aparajita Mohanty... As... Dhauli's mother Anu Choudhury... As... Tila
"Dhauli Express portrays an ambitious youth ""Dhauli"" (Samaresh Routray), Son of Dibakar Das (Mihir Das), who is a post man. Dhauli wants to become a singer. but due to odd circumstances of life he gets involved with Jaga bhai (Siddhanta Mahapatra) into crime world for money."
Soundtrack
The Music for the film is composed by Chittaranjan Tripathy
ISPAT EXPRESS
"Ispat express is a superfast day train of Indian Railways connecting Kolkata with Titlagarh. It covers a distance of 745 kilometers at an average speed of 60 km/h. It has second class seating, an AC chair car, and a general class of coaches. All of the classes require reservations, except for general class, where Tatkal scheme is available. A Pantry car is available in this train. Unlike many trains of Indian Railways, it has an advance reservation period of ten days. It is hauled by WAM 4 and WDM 3A class locomotives. When it was first opened, it ran from Howrah to Jamshedpur. Later, it was extended to Rourkela, Jharsuguda, and then to Sambalpur. After a fourth change, its destination station was changed from Sambalpur to Titlagarh."
Important halts
Kharagpur Tatanagar Chakradharpur Rourkela Jharsuguda Sambalpur Titlagarh
Hirakhand Express is a daily express train which runs between Jagdalpur and Bhubaneswar. It was initially introduced between Sambalpur and Balangir. Later extended to Bhubaneshwar. Now it is serving in a completely different route than the initial one. It is operated by the East Coast Railway Zone of Indian Railways.
Hirakhand means a piece of Diamond in Sambalpuri language spoken in Western Odisha. It is named after the medieval period kingdom of Hirakhand otherwise known as Sambalpur state spread across present Western Odisha and parts of Chhattisgarh state.
Schedule
The 18447 Hirakhand Express leaves Bhubaneswar every day at 1935 hrs IST and reaches Jagdalpur at 1330 hrs IST the next day. The 18448 Hirakhand Express leaves Jagdalpur every day at 1430 hrs IST and reaches Bhubaneswar at 0825 hrs IST on next day.
Stoppings
"The train has stoppings at Koraput, Rayagada, Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Srikakulam, Ichchapuram, Brahmapur and Khordha."
Slip Route
"On 11 August 2012, a ""slip route"" of Hirakhand Express was Inaugurated as ""Junagarh Road-Bhubaneswar Link Express"" (Train Number-18437/18438). The source of this train is Junagarh Road near Bhawanipatna. It leaves Bhawanipatna at 1855 hrs IST daily and arrives at 0825 hrs IST daily. The train amalgamates/bifurcates at Rayagada Railway Station with/from the main Jagdalpur Hirakhand Express. This train halts at Depur PH, G.Ramchandrapur, Lanjigarh Road Jn., Ambodala, Muniguda, Bissam Cuttack and Therubali before/after Rayagada.[1]"
Map gallery
Gallery
"Rajya Rani trains are a series of express trains operated by Indian Railways to connect state capitals with other cities important for tourism, pilgrimage or business."
"The word ""Rajya"" means ""kingdom""[1] and the word ""Rani"" means Queen[2] in Sanskrit and several Indian languages. The Rajya Rani trains were announced by the railway minister in railway budget 2011.[3][4] The first service was flagged off on 1 July 2011 between Mysore and Bangalore.[5]"
Etmology
"The train was named after Maharani Gayatri Devi, former princess of the state of Cooch Behar, Maharani of Jaipur.[6] She was one of the world's 10 most beautiful women on the Vogue list. She shares space with the likes of Rabindranath Tagore (Kavi Guru Express) and Swami Vivekananda (Vivek Express) as the railways has named a series of trains as Rajya Rani Expresses to honour the late Rajmata of Jaipur."
Routes
19027 Vivek Express
"Vivek Express (Hindi and Marathi : विवेक एक्सप्रेस, Gujarati: વિવેક એક્ષ્પ્રેસ, Bengali : বিবেক এক্সপ্রেস, Assamese : বিবেক এক্সপ্রেস, Kannada :ವಿವೇಕ್ ಎಕ್ಸ್ ಪ್ರೆಸ್, Tamil : விவேக் விரைவு தொடருந்து), Telugu: వివేక్ ఎక్స్ప్రెస్ are four pairs of express trains on the Indian Railways network. These trains were announced in the Railway Budget of 2011-12 by the then Railway Minister. These trains were started to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, to be held in 2013. One of the Vivek Express trains, the one from Dibrugarh to Kanyakumari; is the longest route on the Indian Railways network, in terms of distance and time, and is the 9th longest in the world.[1]"
List of Vivek Express Trains
"As of July 2013, there are 4 pairs of Vivek Express trains:"
15905/15906 - Dibrugarh - Kanyakumari Vivek Express 19567/19568 - Okha to Thoothukudi Vivek Express 19027/19028 - Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express 22851/22852 - Santragachhi to Mangalore Vivek Express
Dibrugarh - Kanyakumari Vivek Express route map
Dibrugarh - Kanyakumari Vivek Express
"This weekly train, numbered 15905/15906, is currently the longest train route in the Indian Subcontinent. It joins Dibrugarh in Assam, North-East India to Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu which is the southernmost tip of Mainland India. It covers a total of 4273 km from Dibrugarh to Kanyakumari."
Okha - Tuticorin Vivek Express
Okha - Tuticorin Vivek Express route map
"This too, is a weekly train, numbered 19567/19568. It connects Okha, Gujarat (which is the westernmost tip of India) to Thoothukudi, the ""Pearl City"", in Tamil Nadu in South India. This train covers 3043 km in 54:25 hours. It travels through the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu."
"This train is also religiously important, as it joins two places of religious significance, namely Lord Krishna's Dwarka and Rameswaram, which lies close to Thoothukudi."
"The train covers important cities en route, namely Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Mumbai Vasai Road, Kalyan, Pune, Bangalore (Krishnarajpuram) and Madurai.[2]"
Jammu Tawi - Mumbai Vivek Express route map
Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express
"This train seeks its origin from Bandra Terminus, one of the main stations in Mumbai. This train, 19027/19028, like other Vivek Expresses, is also a weekly train from Bandra Terminus, Mumbai to Jammu Tawi in North India. However, unlike other typical North Indian trains, this train bypasses New Delhi or Delhi NCR. It goes via Surat, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Mehsana, Abu Road, Jodhpur, Degana, Sujangarh, Churu, Sadulpur, Hisar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Chakki Bank, thus bypassing Delhi NCR."
Santragachhi - Mangalore Central Vivek Express
""
"Owing to the positive response to Vivek Express trains by the masses, the Railway Ministry is considering starting a new Vivek Express in the North to East Corridor, between Jammu Tawi and North East India. Earlier Vivek Express trains ran from East to South, South to West, West to North and again East to South India respectively. The new North to East Vivek Express would complete the quadrilateral; it is expected to be announced in the 2013–2014 Railway Budget."
""
"Himsagar Express is a weekly express train of the Indian Railways running between Kanyakumari in India's southernmost state of Tamil Nadu to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra in Jammu and Kashmir- the northernmost state of India. It is currently the second longest running train on the Indian Railways in terms of distance and time, surpassed only by the Dibrugarh–Kanyakumari Vivek Express. In 72hours, the train covers a distance of 3787 km at a speed of 52 km/h, and transverses twelve of India's states halting at a total of 73 stations.[1]"
Route and frequency
"It runs weekly, starting every Friday at 14:05 hours from Kanyakumari, reaching Katra on Mondays at 15:20 hours.[2] It starts from Katra on Mondays at 21:55 hours and reaches Kanyakumari on Thursdays at 21:30 hours.[2] Because of this schedule, it needs just one rake to complete its entire run. There is a Slip Route of this train, running from Erode Junction to Tirunelveli Junction & Chhindwara Junction to Bhopal Junction. The train travels through states of Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu."
"Katra to Kanyakumari: There are several long halts for this train like New Delhi (150 min) and in Thiruvananthapuram Central, Ernakulam Junction, Erode Junction, Bhopal Junction, Nagpur, Itarsi Junction, Jhansi, Gwalior Junction and Vijayawada (10-15 min each)."
Kanyakumari to Katra: The fastest speed is achieved near Kila Raipur (108 km/h) and the slowest speeds on the Hazrat Nizamuddin to New Delhi (24 km/h) and Bhopal Habibganj to Bhopal Junction (19 km/h) . It takes around three hours for the train to clear the Delhi area.
Coach Composite
"The train has 19 bogies comprising One Second AC (2AC), Two Third AC (3AC), Ten Sleeper class (SL), Three Unreserved coaches (UR/GS), Two Luggage rakes (SLR) and One Pantry car (PC).[lower-alpha 1]"
"Asirgarh Fort is an Indian fortress (qila) situated in the Satpura Range about 20 kilometres (12 mi) north of the city of Burhanpur, in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. Because the fortress commands a pass through the Satpuras connecting the valleys of the Narmada and Tapti rivers, one of the most important routes from northern India to the Deccan, it was known as the ""key to the Deccan"". During the Mughal Era, it was considered that the Deccan started here while the empire from Asirgarh to Delhi was considered Hindustan."
The Asirgarh fort is said to have been built by a zamindar named Asa Ahir in the early 15th century. He was murdered by Nasir Khan of Khandesh.[1]
Nasir Khan's descendant Miran Bahadur Khan (1596–1600) declared his independence and refused to pay homage to the Mughal emperor Akbar and his son Daniyal. Akbar marched towards Burhanpur in 1599 and occupied the city. Akbar then besieged Asirgarh fort and captured it on 17 January 1601.[2]
"During the Second Anglo-Maratha War, on 18 October 1803, British forces took the pettah of Asigarh with a loss of two killed and five wounded. The fort's garrison subsequently surrendered on the 21st after the attackers had erected a battery.[3]"
Architecture
"The architecture of the fort was influenced by the Mughals, an amalgamation of Islamic, Persian, Turkish and Indian styles. There are three man made ponds to provide a water supply."
"There is a temple known as Gupteshwar Mahadev Mandir, dedicated to the Hindu deity Shiva. There is a local legend that Ashwatthama, a character in the Indian epic Mahābhārata, used to come to this temple to worship and offer flowers each morning to Lord Shiva."
"There is a ruined mosque with minarets known as Asir Masjid inside the Fort. Apart from the Hindu and Muslim architecture, some ruins are of British origin and there are also British graves. This fort has been deserted following the departure of the British."
Jammu Tawi is a railway station in Jammu city in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.
Background
"Jammu Tawi is the largest railway station in Jammu and Kashmir state. It is a major railhead for other places in the state and for tourists heading towards the Kashmir Valley. Kashmir Railway project starts northwards from here. Administratively, it is in the Firozpur division of Northern Railways."
"Jammu Tawi is well connected to major Indian cities by Indian railways trains. The station code is JAT. The second longest running train in India, in terms of time and distance, the Himsagar Express that goes to Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu in 70 hours, originates from here."
"There existed an old station in the city, on the Jammu-Sialkot Line, which had train services to Sialkot Junction, now in Pakistan, 43 km (27 mi) away. The station also linked with Wazirabad and Narowal stations, both of which are in Pakistan today. The old Jammu station was built in around 1897 but was abandoned after the Partition of India as the railway link to Sialkot was broken. Jammu had no rail services until 1971, when the Indian Railways laid the Pathankot - Jammu Tawi Broad Gauge line. The new Jammu Tawi station was opened in 1975. In 2000, much of the old railway station was demolished to make way for an art centre."
Electrification
"The entire Jalandhar-Jammu section, Jammu Tawi station and sidings have been completely energized to 25kV AC and approved for electric traction in August 2014. Swaraj Express now gets an end to end WAP 4 from Jammu Tawi to Bandra Terminus. Himgiri Express now gets an end to end WAP-7 from Jammu Tawi to Howrah."
Jammu Tawi railway station
Kanniyakumari railway station (Station code: CAPE) is a railway terminus of the Indian Railways serving the coastal city of Kanyakumari in the state of Tamil Nadu.
Administration
It is a part of the Thiruvananthapuram railway division of Southern Railway zone. It's the southern most railway station in India. The Kanyakumari rail station is located in the heart of Kanniyakumari and is only 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) away from Kanniyakumari beach.
Services
"Several express trains connect Kanyakumari with the rest of India. Two longest trains operated by the Indian Railways — Dibrugarh–Kanyakumari Vivek Express 4,283 kilometres (2,661 mi)) and Himsagar Express 3,789 kilometres (2,354 mi)) depart from here. It has daily trains to Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai as well as direct trains for Rameswaram, New Delhi, Howrah, Jammu, Dibrugarh etc."
Kanniyakumari railway station
Shalimar Express is a daily train between Delhi and Jammu Tawi. It is operated by the Northern Railways. Its number is 14645/14646. It comes in the Non Superfast (Mail/Express) trains category of the Indian Railways.
History and etymology
"The Shalimar Express is one of the oldest trains to Jammu Tawi. It has been given the name 'Shalimar' with reference to the Shalimar Gardens of Srinagar, as Jammu Tawi was the nearest railway station to Srinagar at that time."
Arrival and departure
"The train leaves at 15:50 every day from Delhi to Jammu Tawi. It reaches Jammu Tawi the next morning, early, at around 05:20. While heading towards the Capital, it leaves Jammu Tawi at 20:45 from #platform 3 and arrives at Delhi at about 10:50 at platform 1 at the next morning."
"Unlike all other trains to Jammu Tawi, this train does not take the Delhi - Jammu Tawi main route. This train goes via Ghaziabad, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Deoband, Saharanpur, Amabla Cantonment Junction, Ludhiana Junction, and Jalandhar; instead of Sonipat, Panipat, [Karnal], and Kurukshetra. The train passes through parts of Delhi NCR, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. It has 26 halts before reaching Old Delhi. It is one of two trains travelling through this route."
"With the doubling and electrification of the entire Jalandhar - Pathankot - Jammu Tawi section, it is expected that the average speed of the Shalimar Express will increase in the near future."
Arrival and departure
"The Up train heading for Jammu Tawi leaves Pune at 17:20 hrs. It arrives New Delhi on the next day at 20:45 hrs, and Jammu Tawi on the third day at 09:20 hrs. The Down train leaves Jammu Tawi at 21:45 hrs and arrives New Delhi at 10:00 hrs the next morning. Finally it reaches Pune at 14:35 hrs on the third day.[3]"
"After leaving Pune, it halts at Uruli, Daund, Ahmednagar, Belapur, Kopargaon, Manmad, Nandgaon, Chalisgaon, Pachora, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Burhanpur, Khandwa, Chhanera, Harda, Timarni, Banapura, Itarsi, Hoshangabad, Habibganj, Bhopal, Vidisha, Ganjbasoda, Bina, Lalitpur, Babina, Jhansi, Datia, Dabra, Gwalior, Morena, Dhaulpur, Agra Cantt, Raja-ki-Mandi, Mathura, Faridabad, Hazrat Nizamuddin, New Delhi, Subzi Mandi, Narela, Sonipat, Ganaur, Panipat, Karnal, Taraori, Kurukshetra, Ambala Cantt, Ambala City, Rajpura, Sirhind, Khanna, Ludhiana, Phagwara, Jalandhar, Tanda Urmar, Dasuya, Mukerian, Chakki Bank, Kathua, Samba, Vijaypur Jammu, and finally terminates at Jammu Tawi. Thus the passes through the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan (a small portion while passing through Dhaulpur), Haryana, Delhi NCR, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. Thus, the train traverses a distance of 2177 km in 40 hrs.[4]"
Future prospects
"With the doubling and electrification of the Daund - Manmad section and the Jalandhar - Pathankot - Jammu Tawi section, the Jhelum Express is expected to run faster, with comparatively less running time. Moreover, with the completion of Katra Banihal section in 2018 December, the train is also expected to be extended to Srinagar, linking the important army setups in Kashmir with Northern Command headquarters in Udhampur and Southern Command headquarters in Pune."
Gallery
Jhelum Express Route map
"The Jhelum Express (Hindi : झेलम एक्सप्रेस) is a daily train on the Indian Railways. It runs from Pune, the cultural capital of Maharashtra, to Jammu Tawi, the winter capital of Jammu and Kashmir, in North India."
"The train is strategically important, as it connects the headquarters of the Southern Command of the Indian Army, Pune, with an important border city."
"The Jhelum Express is one of the oldest trains originating from Pune. Started in 1979,[1] it was the first train connecting Pune to the capital city of New Delhi. The train was initially started for the army."
Number and nomenclature
"The train was named for the River Jhelum, a notable river in Jammu and Kashmir. The Up train, Pune - Jammu Tawi, has the number 11077,[2] while the Down train, Jammu Tawi - Pune, is numbered 11078."
"Malwa Express (Hindi : मालवा एक्सप्रेस) is a daily superfast express train service which connects Indore Junction BG railway station of Indore, the largest city and commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, to Jammu Tawi in Jammu & Kashmir, India."
"This train was originally introduced between Indore and New Delhi and was then extended to Jammu Tawi. It was the first Indian train to reach Pakistan as a diplomatic gesture. On 22 October 1985, it terminated at Lahore in Pakistan running as an Indore – Lahore Special, but the service was withdrawn after 55 days due to controversies. It is the fifth train in India and Madhya Pradesh to get an ISO Certificate, after the Bhopal Express, Rewanchal Express and Ahilyanagari Express."
Malwa Express departing from Indore
"The Timetable for early 2015 shows departure from Jammu Tawi at 09:00 am daily, with arrival at Indore Junction at 12:50 pm the following day with 27 hours and 50 minutes, including 3 hours and 1 minute waiting at the 39 intermediate stations. This is an average speed of 55.3 km per hour for the 1540 km journey, or 62.1 km per hour excluding stops."
Indore bond Malwa Express standing at Ludhiana Junction
"The train runs on multiple routes through its journey via. Dewas – Ujjain, Ujjain – Bhopal, Bhopal – Bina, Bina – Jhansi – Gwalior, Gwalior – Agra, Agra – Mathura, Mathura – New Delhi and Delhi – Amritsar routes. It passes over through 7 states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, New Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir. The important halts of this train include Bhopal Jn., Jhansi Jn., Gwalior Jn., Mathura Jn., New Delhi and Ludhiana Jn.."
Coach composite
The train normally consists of 24 coaches:
13sleeper coaches 1 AC-2 class 5 AC-3 class 4 general 1 pantry car
Jharsuguda railway station is a major railway junction located in the north-western part of the Indian state of Odisha and serves Jharsuguda district.
"Jharsuguda railway station came up with the opening of the Nagpur-Asansol main line of Bengal Nagpur Railway in 1891. It became a station on the crosscountry Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line in 1900.[1] In 1960, Indian Railway took up three projects: the Kottavalasa-Koraput-Jeypore-Kirandaul line ( Dandakaranya Project ), the Titlagarh-Bolangir-Jharsuguda Project and the Rourkela-Kiriburu Project. All the three projects taken together were popularly known as the DBK Project or the Dandakaranya Bolangir Kiriburu Project.[2] It was electrified in 1969-70.[3]"
Jharsuguda is located in the Ib river valley. It serves Ib Valley Coalfield and a growing industrial area.[4] 52 trains (including weeklies and bi-weeklies) pass through Jharsuguda railway station.[5]
Balangir railway station is a railway station which serves Balangir district in Indian state of Odisha.[1]
"The 79 km (49 mi) Vizianagaram-Parvatipuram line was opened in 1908–09. The Parvatipuram-Raipur line was completed in 1931.[2] In 1960, Indian Railway took up three projects: the Kottavalasa-Koraput-Jeypore-Kirandaul line ( Dandakaranya Project ), the Titlagarh-Bolangir-Jharsuguda Project and the Rourkela-Kiriburu Project. All the three projects taken together were popularly known as the DBK Project or the Dandakaranya Bolangir Kiriburu Project.[3] The Sambalpur-Titlagarh line was opened to traffic in 1963.[2]"
Railway reorganisation
"The Bengal Nagpur Railway was nationalised in 1944.[4]Eastern Railway was formed on 14 April 1952 with the portion of East Indian Railway Company east of Mughalsarai and the Bengal Nagpur Railway.[5] In 1955, South Eastern Railway was carved out of Eastern Railway. It comprised lines mostly operated by BNR earlier.[5][6] Amongst the new zones started in April 2003 were East Coast Railway and South East Central Railway. Both these railways were carved out of South Eastern Railway.[5]"
Khurda Balangir rail link
"The Khurda Balangir rail link was surveyed in 1945 but the project was sanctioned in 1994–95. The stretch of only 41.5 kilometres (25.8 mi) from Khurda Road to Rajsunakhala has been constructed out of the 289 kilometres (180 mi) project. The work on infrastructure started in 2007. The state government has signed Memorandum of Understanding with Indian railways to undertake some parts of the project on cost sharing basis.[7] The project which was initially estimated to be ₹1,000 crore (US$150 million) is now estimated to be nearly ₹2,000 crore (US$300 million) after almost 20 years of delay due to low budgetary provisions and issues of land acquisition. This rail line will link cities of Nayagarh, Boudh and Sonepur with Bhubaneswar and Balangir. Smaller towns like Dasapalla, Banigocha and Manipur will also be linked by this rail line. Work at Balangir side of this project has also started.[8]"
Electrification
Electrification of the Titlagarh–Sambalpur-Jharsuguda was sanctioned in the Railway Budget for 2012–13.[9]
"Kanchanjungha Express is an important mail/express type train of Indian Railways linking state of West Bengal with Assam. Previously it used to run between Howrah and New Jalpaiguri, but was later extended up to Guwahati Junction. Now it runs between Sealdah (Kolkata) and Guwahati. It is now extended up to Silchar from first week of February, 2016. It runs triweekly from Silchar. It is equally important among tourists and pilgrims.This train is very Important in this route after Saraighat Express. Tatkal scheme is available in it. From Sealdah To Malda Town it is hauled by WDM 3A class diesel locomotive of Barddhaman Junction shed.From Malda Town to Guwahati /Silchar it is hauled by WDM 3A class diesel locomotive of Malda Town shed."
Important Halts
15657 Kanchenjunga express leaves Sealdah daily at 6:35 and reaches Guwahati Junction at 4:30 next day. 15658 Kanchenjunga express departs Guwahati Junction at 22:30 daily and reaches Sealdah next day at 19:25.
"Duronto Express is a category of long-distance non stop source to destination trains run by the Indian Railways. Initially these trains did not have any ticketing stops between the origin and the destination, but since January 2016 it is possible to book tickets from those technical stops. ""Duronto"" means ""restless"" in Bengali language. These trains' coaches have characteristic yellow-green livery. Duronto Express services connect the several metros and major state capitals of India. These trains are faster than or as fast as Rajdhani and Shatabdi trains."
"The Government of India's Ministry of Railways (India) has been trying to introduce high-speed rail in India. In 2007, the ministry chose the 500-kilometre stretch between Delhi and Amritsar for a pre-feasibility study.[1] On 19 January 2009, Railway Minister, Mamata Banerjee, said that the ministry was in the process of appointing global consultants for introducing the high-speed trains on certain routes. Besides the Delhi-Amritsar route, Pune-Mumbai-Ahmedabad, Hyderabad-Dornakal-Vijaywada-Chennai, Chennai-Bangalore-Coimbatore-Ernakulam-Thiruvananthapuram and Howrah-Haldia.[2] But, this High Speed rail service for India is expected to be completed on a long run."
"The Duronto Expresses are one of the fastest trains in India. These trains run faster than Rajdhani Express[4] trains which hold the record of the fastest long-distance trains in India. For example, the New Delhi - Sealdah Duronto Express takes 16 hours to cover the journey against 17 hours taken by Rajdhani Express. The trains will adhere to the speed limit of 110 km/h {non-stop}.[5] The Chennai, Ernakulam and Pune Duronto run at a speed of 130 km/h.[6] In March 2011, the cost of travel in the Duronto Express went up as the Minister of Railways announced a hike in railway fare. The decision to hike railway fares resulted in trouble across the Government and were rolled back,[7] only to be raised again on 1 April.[8] A feature exclusive to the Duronto is the LHB Sleeper coach. The sleeper class is the most common coach, and usually ten or more coaches could be attached."
"No Train number Services Avg Speed 1 12213/12214 Yeshvantapur Delhi Sarai Rohilla AC Duronto Express 2 12219/12220 Secunderabad Mumbai Duronto Express 3 12221/12222 Pune Howrah Duronto Express 71 km/hr 4 12223/12224 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Ernakulam Duronto Express 5 12227/12228 Indore Duronto Express 6 12239/12240 Jaipur Duronto Express 70 km/hr 7 12245/12246 Howrah Yeshvantapur Duronto Express 67 km/hr 8 12259/12260 Sealdah – New Delhi Duronto Express 85 km/hr 9 12261/12262 Howrah Mumbai CST Duronto Express 74 km/hr 10 12263/12264 Hazrat Nizamuddin Pune Duronto Express 78 km/hr 11 12265/12266 Delhi Sarai Rohilla Jammu Tawi Duronto Express 12 12267/12268 Ahmedabad Duronto Express 78 km/hr 13 12269/12270 Chennai Duronto Express 77 km/hr 14 12273/12274 Howrah New Delhi Duronto Express 84 km/hr 15 12275/12276 Allahabad New Delhi Duronto Express 85 Km/Hr 16 12281/12282 Bhubaneswar Duronto Express 77 km/hr 17 12283/12284 Ernakulam Duronto Express 68 km/hr 18 12285/12286 Secunderabad Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto Express 76 km/hr 19 12289/12290 Nagpur Duronto express 74 km/hr 20 12293/12294 Allahabad Duronto Express 70 km/hr 21 12297/12298 Pune Ahmedabad Duronto Express 82 km/hr 22 12847/12848 Howrah Digha Duronto Express 60 km/hr 23 22201/22202 Sealdah Puri Duronto Express 64 km/hr 24 22203/22204 Visakhapatnam – Secunderabad Duronto Express 73 km/hr 25 22205/22206 Chennai Madurai AC Duronto Express 62 km/hr 26 22213/22214 Kolkata Shalimar – Patna Duronto Express 62 km/hr 27 22209/22210 Mumbai New Delhi Duronto Express 82 km/hr Yeswanthapur-Howrah Duronto Express leaving Yeswanthapur Railway Station Allahabad Duronto at Allahabad. No Previous Service Now running as 1 Ajmer Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto Express Ajmer Hazrat Nizamuddin Jan Shatabdi Express 2 Chennai Coimbatore AC Duronto Express Chennai Coimbatore Shatabdi Express 3 Amrtisar Chandigarh Duronto Express Amritsar Chandigarh Superfast Express 4 Lucknow New Delhi AC Duronto Express Lucknow Rajdhani Express 5 Anuvrat AC Superfast Express Anuvrat AC Duronto Express Incidents and accidents In January 2010, the passengers of the Duronto Express between Nagpur and Mumbai complained about passengers without confirmed tickets travelling inside the reserved coaches.[9] In May 2010, at least 19 passengers on board the Ernakulam Duronto Express were admitted to the Government General Hospital after complaining of food poisoning.[10] In June 2010, the Howrah Mumbai CST Duronto express faced interruption as its engine and generator car were detached from the rest of the train's coaches due to technical problems. The problem was fixed within less than an hour.[11] In June 2013, the 12264 Pune Duronto derailed near Monkey Hill due to a landslide. No injuries were reported & the train reached 5 hours late at Pune Junction . In September 2015, 12220 Secunderabad Mumbai Duronto Express Express derailed at Martur station between Shahbad and Gulbarga on Solapur Division in Karnataka at around 2:15 am. Two passengers were killed and more than 30 injured when eight of its coaches were derailed. See also Express trains in India Jan Shatabdi Express Shatabdi Express Rajdhani Express Garib Rath Superfast Mail/Express – other categories of fast rail services in India Rajya Rani Express Vivek Express References ↑ ""Bullet Trains Expected in India"". Rediff. 3 May 2007. Retrieved 20 September 2009.  ↑ ""India plans High Speed rail Service for Railways"". Rediff. January 2009. Retrieved 22 September 2009.  ↑ ""Non-stop point-to-point long-distance trains introduced in the Budget"". Rediff. 3 July 2009. Retrieved 22 September 2009.  ↑ ""Duronto Trains Will Be Faster Than Rajdhani"". India TV. 3 July 2009. Retrieved 23 September 2009.  ↑ ""Kolkata-New Delhi Duronto Express!"". My News.in. 19 September 2009. Retrieved 23 September 2009.  ↑ ""Duronto blazing new tracks"". The Hindu. 21 September 2009. Retrieved 23 September 2009.  ↑ ""Didi's Duronto hits Rajdhani; Trivedi hikes fares"". DNA India. Retrieved 7 April 2012.  ↑ ""Revised train fares from April 1"". The Deccan Chornicle. Retrieved 7 April 2012.  ↑ ""Waitlisted causing trouble in Duronto"". The Times of India. Retrieved 8 April 2012.  ↑ ""Harrowing experience for Duronto Express passengers"". The Hindu. Retrieved 8 April 2012.  ↑ ""Duronto Express coaches come loose"". The Hindu. Retrieved 8 April 2012.  External links Duronto trains at India Rail Info Videos of Sealdah-New Delhi Duronto List of Duronto Trains on India Rail website Duronto Map – Latest |}|}|}"
"Rajadhani Express is a train service provider in Sri Lanka, a part of Blue Line Company. Rajadhani Express provides premium services on several routes in Sri Lanka, in partnership with Sri Lanka Railways. Although it does not yet operate its own trains for scheduled services, it operates carriages that are attached to trains operated by Sri Lanka Railways."
Detail of logo and livery
"Although Rajadhani Express carriages are attached to Sri Lanka Railways-operated trains, Rajadhani provides on-board services and markets it as a separate operation. The service is aimed at middle and upper middle-income and tourist markets. Sri Lanka Railways generates revenue by charging Rajadhani a standard first-class fare per seat. Rajadhani charges an additional premium on its passengers beyond the standard fare to provide its services.[1]"
"The Blue Line Company launched Rajadhani Express on October 1, 2011, with its first service on a Kandy intercity train. On the same day, a competing service was launched by Expolanka, called ExpoRail.[2]"
Rolling stock
"Rajadhani Express uses Romanian-built ASTRA passenger coaches. Imported by Sri Lanka Railways in the 1990s, they were refurbished in 2011-2012 to Rajadhani's specifications."
Rajadhani Express
"Rengali dam is located in Odisha. It is constructed across Brahmani River in Rengali village located 70 km from Angul in Angul district, Odisha in India.[1]"
"The dam was constructed in 1985.[2] The project was not welcomed by the local people during the conception and initial implementation of the project due to the displacement of several people and the way the Government tacked the issue.[3] The project has displaced a total of 10,700 families.[4]"
Features
"Rengali dam is 70.5 m tall and 1040 m wide. The reservoir formed by the dam is the second largest reservoir in Odisha with 37, 840 hectares at full level and 28,000 hectares in mean level. The reservoir has a catchment area of 25,250 km2 mostly forests and wasteland. The dam is also used to generate electricity by 5 units with a capacity of 50MW each. The dam holds 3412 million cubic meters of water at Full Reservoir Level (FRL).[1][5]"
Rengali irrigation project
A barrage is constructed across the Brahmani river 35 km downstream of Rengali dam. The barrage is used to store the flood releases from the dam and divert it through two canal systems. It has a free catchment area of 4780 km2 and between the dam and barrage. The area records an annual rainfall of 1570 mm on average.[1][6]
Environmental impact
"Bhitarkanika Mangroves, located in Odisha adjacent to Bay of Bengal faces a unique threat since the construction of this dam. The species of trees in the Mangroves are fed by the unique combination of salt and fresh water from rivers including Brahmani River. Scientists from Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology (IMMT) and Spatial Planning and Analysis Research Centre Private Limited (SPARC) have performed a study on Effect of reduced water flow through Brahmani-Baitarani river system on the mangrove population of Bhitarkanika estuary."
"In their study, the scientists have found that the water flow at the Mangrove delta head before and after the construction of the dam in 1985 is 19,514 million cubic meters and 17,389 million cubic metres respectively. They believe that this level may go down to 14,000 once the full potential of the project will be realised around 2025. They have warned of slow decline and disappearance of the plant species in this mangroves if a sustainable amount of water is not released into the mangroves.[2]"
"Roger Michael Humphrey Binny (born 19 July 1955, Bangalore, Karnataka) is an Indian former cricket all-rounder who is best known for his impressive bowling performance in the 1983 Cricket World Cup where he was the highest wicket-taker (18 wickets), and in the 1985 World Series Cricket Championship in Australia where he repeated this feat (17 wickets). He played 27 tests and 72 ODIs for India. Binny started his international career on his home ground, the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore in the first Test of the 1979 home series against Pakistan. Against bowlers of the calibre of Imran Khan and Sarfraz Nawaz, he performed creditably in his debut match scoring 46 runs. He was a useful swing bowler and one of the better fielders in the Indian team of that time. His Test career was not stellar, but he and fellow Pace bowler Karsan Ghavri were helpful in getting the shine off the new ball before India's famous spin bowlers (Bishen Singh Bedi, Chandrashekhar, Prasanna and Ventatraghavan) could take over. Binny and Ghavri (along with wicket keeper Syed Kirmani) were also credited with saving many test matches for India. When the top batting order collapsed, Binny could be counted to hold the batting down so as to avoid innings defeats or drag the match to a draw. Binny however came into his own in the World Cup. The wickets suited his medium-pace, and in tandem with Madan Lal, and led by the inspirational Kapil Dev, he helped India win their first World Cup title. He was the first Anglo-Indian to play cricket for India . His son Stuart is following in his footsteps and played state cricket for Karnataka. Roger Binny is currently serving as an Office Bearer at the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA). He appeared as the in-house cricket expert for national news channel - NewsX, during the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup."
Chicken fries from Burger King
Chicken fries are chicken nuggets shaped like French fries.
Variants
Some different brands of chicken fries include:
"KFC, Canada – Introduced in 1997, pulled later that year. They were re-introduced in August 2006 and were available until 27 September 2006. They returned in the summer of 2007 with cheese in the center, as ""Cheesy Chicken Fries"". Burger King's BK Chicken Fries[1] Dwight Yoakam's ""Chicken Lickins's"" chicken fries[2] Tyson's ""Chicken Fries"""
"Paradise Food Court is a hotel located on MG Road, Secunderabad, in the Indian state of Telangana. It is reported to be popular for its Hyderabadi biryani and other Hyderabadi dishes. In mid-2013 incidents were reported regarding staff attitude towards poorer members of society.[1]"
"The Paradise restaurant, founded in 1953, began as a small cafe serving tea and snacks, but now offers full service. It serves traditional Hyderabadi, Indian and Chinese continental delicacies."
"Faluda, a popular drink at Paradise Hotel"
"Paradise Hotel serves Hyderabadi dum biryani, Kebabs, Chinese cuisine, Tandoori cuisine etc. and Hyderabadi haleem during Ramadan.[2][3]"
The hotel was the recipient of Awards from publications like Times of India and Burrp.
Second prize - Best Haleem at 2011 Times Biryani and Haleem contest First prize - Best Biryani 2012 Times Food Award Best Biryani Ever by Kutti Karishma Krishnan
Controversies
"On 3 May 2013 it was reported that a customer witnessed the restaurant's security assaulting a flower hawker on the street beside the restaurant. The guards were accused by other woman hawkers of bullying and harassment, destroying their flowers and groping them.[4][5]"
"In June 2010, Burj Khalifa was the recipient of the 2010 ""Best Tall Building Middle East & Africa"" award by the CTBUH.[115] }}"
"The Burj Khalifa (Arabic: برج خليفة‎‎, Arabic for ""Khalifa Tower""; pronounced English /ˈbɜːrdʒ kəˈliːfə/), known as the Burj Dubai before its inauguration, is a megatall skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is the tallest structure in the world, standing at 829.8 m (2,722 ft).[4][9]"
"Burj Khalifa was designed by Adrian Smith, then of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill (SOM), whose firm designed the Willis Tower and One World Trade Center. Hyder Consulting was chosen to be the supervising engineer with NORR Group Consultants International Limited chosen to supervise the architecture of the project. The design of Burj Khalifa is derived from patterning systems embodied in Islamic architecture, incorporating cultural and historical elements particular to the region, such as in the Great Mosque of Samarra. The Y-shaped plan is designed for residential and hotel usage. A buttressed core structural system is used to support the height of the building, and the cladding system is designed to withstand Dubai's summer temperatures. It contains a total of 57 elevators and 8 escalators."
Conception
"Burj Khalifa was designed to be the centrepiece of a large-scale, mixed-use development that would include 30,000 homes, nine hotels (including The Address Downtown Dubai), 3 hectares (7.4 acres) of parkland, at least 19 residential towers, the Dubai Mall, and the 12-hectare (30-acre) artificial Burj Khalifa Lake. The decision to build Burj Khalifa is reportedly based on the government's decision to diversify from an oil-based economy to one that is service and tourism based. According to officials, it is necessary for projects like Burj Khalifa to be built in the city to garner more international recognition, and hence investment. ""He (Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum) wanted to put Dubai on the map with something really sensational,"" said Jacqui Josephson, a tourism and VIP delegations executive at Nakheel Properties.[16] The tower was known as Burj Dubai (""Dubai Tower"") until its official opening in January 2010.[17] It was renamed in honour of the ruler of Abu Dhabi and president of the United Arab Emirates, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Abu Dhabi and the federal government of UAE lent Dubai tens of billions of USD so that Dubai could pay its debts – Dubai borrowed at least $80 billion for construction projects.[17] In 2000s, Dubai started diversifying its economy but it suffered from an economic crisis in 2007–2010, leaving large scale projects already in construction abandoned. [citation needed]"
Burj Khalifa
History of height increases
The spiral minaret at the Great Mosque of Samarra
"Utkal Grameen Bank[1] (UGB) (Odia: ) is a Regional Rural Bank established on 1 November 2012 with the merger[2] of Rushikulya Gramya Bank and Utkal Gramya Bank in terms of provisions of Regional Rural Banks Act 1976. The bank is sponsored by State Bank of India & is jointly Owned by the Government of India, Government of Odisha and SBI."
"The shareholders of the Bank are Govt. of India (50%), State Bank of India (35%) and Govt. of Odisha (15%). The Bank is operating in 17 districts of Odisha State with its Head Office at Bolangir. Besides, the bank has seven Regional Offices in western and southern Odisha."
"The bank was established on 1 November 2012 as an amalgamation of the Rushikulya and Utkal RRBs. At the time of amalgation, Rushikulya bank had only 87 branches.[3] It subsequently grew to a network of 426 branches, of which 360 are in remote rural areas. Apart from the Head Office at Bolangir, the bank has opened regional offices at Sambalpur, Rayagada, Bargarh, Bhawanipatna, Jeypore and Berhampur."
"Presently, the Bank operates in 17 districts of Western and Southern Orissa, covering 63% of the geographical area and 48% of the total population of Odisha State."
Performance
The bank made a profit of Rs 9.01 Crore in the year 2011-12.[4] The bank had a CD ratio of 59.5% at the time of amalgamation.
"In 2015, Utkal Grameen Bank came First in the ranking of all banks in Odisha on Financial Inclusion parameters, with a score of 75 out of 100, becoming the best bank to handle Government business in the State.[5]"
Board of Directors
The bank's affairs are conducted by a Board of Directors[6] consisting of the following persons :-
Ib river near Jharsuguda
"Ib River is a tributary of Mahanadi river in North-Eastern Central India. It joins Mahanadi river flowing directly into the Hirakud Reservoir. The river originates in hills near Pandrapet at an elevation of 762 metres (2,500 ft). It passes through Raigarh district and Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh and Jharsuguda and Sundargarh District of Odisha and finally meets Mahanadi at Hirakud Dam in the state ."
"Ib river valley is famous for its rich coal belt, Ib Valley Coalfield. Major portions of Mahanadi Coalfields are situated on the banks of Ib. Many industries have flourished on the banks of the river Ib. The Ib valley areas are counted as one of the most important industrial zones of Eastern India. The river runs for a distance of about 252 kilometres (157 mi) and drains an area of 12,447 square kilometres (4,806 sq mi).[1]"
There are enough sightseeing opportunities in the adjoining areas of River Ib. it is believed that the perennial river inspired several tribal groups of Chhattisgarh and Odisha to make permanent habitat on its bank in the past ages. Also there are ample folklores regarding the mythological significance of the Ib river.
"The Tela River or Río Tela is a river that runs through Tela, in Honduras, flowing into the Caribbean Sea. It begins in a marshy area inland and opens out near the sea."
See also
Tela River
"The Tel river flows in Nabarangpur, Kalahandi, Balangir, Sonpur District of Odisha, India. Tel is an important tributary of Mahanadi. It flows just eight kilometers away from the town of Titilagarh. This significant tributary of the Mahanadi river meets the main river at Sonpur or Subarnapur. The convergence of the two rivers offers a remarkable view against a colorful landscape. Baidyanath temple, which is famous for the Kosaleshwar Shiva temple, is located on the left bank of the Tel River."
"Source: The Tel river originates in plain and open country in the koraput district of Orissa, India."
"Ong River is a tributary of Mahanadi river. It flows across Odisha and joins Mahanadi 11 km upstream of Sonepur where Tel merges. The river rises at an elevation of 457 m and runs 204 km before it meets Mahanadi. It drains area of about 5,128&. Nearby cities to river Ong: Bolangir(39km), Sohela(40km), Saraipali(45 km) ,Bargarh(59 km),Sonepur(70 km),Burla(89 km),Sumbalpur(94 km) and some others cities also. Coordinates: 20°59'4""N 83°12'48""E Nearby rivers to Ong river: Tel Nadi (River) 76 km Gorkha Nadi 171 km Subarnarekha River/Swarnarekha River 431 km Godavari 485 km Manairu Vagu 508 km River Krishna 708 km River Paleru 711 km River Palleru 722 km Kusastali River 937 km Thirumani 996 km nbsp;km2.[1]"
"Sonepur Autonomous College is located in Sonepur town, district headquarters of Subarnapur district, Odisha, India.[1]"
"This college was started in 1964 with pre-university arts class under Utkal University. On 01.01.1967 this institute came under the jurisdiction of Sambalpur University, Jyoti Vihar, Burla. Formally classes were started in the old Judge Court Building of Sonepur state. Later it was shifted in to the majestic mansion of ‘MITRODAYA BHAWAN', the guest house of the royal family located on the bank of the river Mahanadi. This building was donated by the Trust Fund, Sonepur in 1966."
"The institution started (Bachelor of Arts) B.A. classes in 1966, I.Sc (Intermediate in Science) in 1971 and (Bachelor of Science) B.Sc. classes in 1975. After getting its full-fledged status in all branches of Arts, Science, and Commerce with all the essential subjects it got Honours affiliation in various Arts (Oriya, History, Political Science, Economics, English, Education, Sanskrit, Mathematics, Philosophy), and Science (Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology) subjects."
Hostels and student facilities
There are two hostels for students. The Principal is the final authority in all matters relating to the hostel. Other student facilities are:
External links
"Larambha College is situated in the Larambha village of Bargarh district in Odisha, India."
The college is located at a distance of 0.75 km from State highway of Godbhaga-Sonepur that joins National Highway No 6 at Godbhaga which is 7.5 km away from Larambha. The college was founded by Braja Mohan Panda on 10 July 1964.
"Originally a science college, the college now offers courses in humanities, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Mathematics, Economics, Political science, History and Oriya language. It also houses a higher secondary section."
The college has NCC and NSS (National Service Scheme) sections. Hostel facilities are available for residential both male and female students. A well furnished play ground is also there.
The college has been accredited as B+ by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). It has also been awarded Prakruti Mitra award by the State Government of Odisha.
"Rajendra College Balangir is in Balangir town in the state of Odisha, India.[1] It was upgraded to a degree college in July 1946 by offering B.A. (pass) class. It became a full-fledged degree college after the affiliation of Commerce Faculty (B.Com. class) in 1964-65 and Science faculty (B.Sc. class) in 1965-66. From 1978-79 it started offering post graduate courses in Arts, Science and Commerce. From 1967 to 2002 this college was under Sambalpur University."
"Currently, it is an autonomous Institution as declared by U.G.C. The college is NAAC accredited as B++."
"The campus of Rajendra College Balangir is in a hilly place, on the side of Patnagarh road. The location is natural and beautiful."
"The library of Rajendra College is one of the outstanding libraries of Odisha. It has more than 100,000 books. It caters the needs of teachers and students of this institution."
Student facilities
Rajendra College has three hostels:
New Hostel PG Hostel Ladies Hostel
Other student facilities:
Dispensary Canteen Post Office Student Information Centre Parking Lots Sports Ground
The Khurdha-Bolangir Railway Line will connect Khurda Road railway station to Balangir railway station in a shorter way through Daspalla.[2]
"A new 289 km long railway line from Bolangir to Khurda Road junction was sanctioned in 1993 and its foundation stone was laid in June 2001 but there has been very little progress in construction of this railway line. Out of 289 km length, 22 km is in Bolangir district. Even all the land required for the railway line has not been acquired until the end of 2011."
"In 2015-16 Rail Budget, the rail line got a green single from Minister of Railways Suresh Prabhu as Rs 4682 crore was alloted for Odisha As construction will be done in three phases, first between Khurda Road to Begunia a 36 km stretch then 76 km from Begunia to Daspalla and 177 km from Daspalla to Balangir under the review of Chef Minister of Odisha Naveen Patnaik.[3][4][5][6]"
"In July 2016, Railway minister Suresh Prabhu inaugurated the Khurda Road-Begunia 36 km stretch and tracks are being laid from Begunia to Nayagarh which is likely to be completed by March 2017 and whole project to be completed in 2021. This will connects Nayagarh, Boudh, Sonepur and Balangir which are economically backward district in the state.[7]"
"The Government Autonomous University, Angul is a premier educational institute set up by the Government of Odisha, India, in the year 1957 at Angul, (district headquarters) which was inaugurated by the then Chief Minister of Odisha Dr Harekrishna Mahatab. It is situated at the heart of Angul nearly 1 km away from NH-55."
"The University started as an Intermediate College and the name of the college has undergone changes time and again and finally assumed the name Govt. College, Angul in the year 1976. The college is affiliated to the Utkal University. The college became a lead college in the year 1990.[1]"
The Autonomous status was conferred on the college by the UGC during the session 2006-07 and the College has been accredited by the NAAC.
Department
"Botany CHEMISTRY Commerce Computer Science Economics Education English Geography History Odia Philosophy Physics Political Science Sanskrit Zoology MBA,MAPMIR,I-MBA"
Hostel
"The college provides accommodation facilities for students, there are three boy's hostels and two women's Hostels for 400 above students. As well as Principal appoints a superintendent for managing the Hostels. Foods of the Hostels are very hygienic and good.Out of the three boys' hostels the 3rd hostel is for only +2 students and rest two are for all."
"Government Autonomous College, Angul"
"Lalit Maken was a Member of parliament, a political leader of Indian National Congress and a labour union leader. Maken was the son-in-law of late President of India Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma."
"In the year of 1984, He was elected to the Lok Sabha as a Member of parliament, a directly elected lower house of the Parliament of India from South Delhi of India. He was a metropolitan Councillor prior to his election to Parliament of India. He was an extremely promising young politician and a popular trade union leader."
Sikh Massacre of 1984
"Maken was alleged to be involved in the killings of innocent Sikhs during 1984 Anti-SikhGenocid. In a 31-page booklet titled 'Who Are The Guilty', People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) listed 227 people who led the mobs, which killed up to 3,000 Sikhs over three days. Lalit Maken's name was third on the list.[1] However his daughter Avantika does not believe that her father was involved in the anti Sikh pogrom, she believe that her father was a secular man and he was a threat to many established Congress leaders[2]"
Assassination
"Maken and his wife Gitanjali, the daughter of future president Shankar Dayal Sharma, were gunned down by Harjinder Singh Jinda, Sukhdev Singh Sukha and Ranjit Singh Gill alias Kukki for his involvement in Riots outside Mr. Maken's Kirti Nagar residence in West Delhi on 31 July 1985[3] Lalit Maken was gunned down,[3] when he was moving towards his car parked across the road from his house in Kirti Nagar, New Delhi. All three assailants continued firing even as Maken ran towards his house for cover. Maken's wife Geetanjali and a visitor, Balkishan, were also caught in the firing, and all the three died on the spot. The assailants escaped on their scooters.[1] Lalit Maken,Mrs Gitanjali Maken and Balkishen were taken to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The postmortem examination's were conducted by a team of doctors headed by Dr T D Dogra."
"Police later arrested Sukhdev Singh Sukha in the year of 1986 and Harjinder Singh Jinda in the year of 1987. Both of them were later sentenced to death for the murder of Indian Army general Arun Shridhar Vaidya (architect of Operation Blue Star) and on 9 October 1992, they were hanged in Yerwada Central Jail in Pune in Indian state of Maharashtra.[4] As per Indian request, Ranjit Singh ""Gill"" was arrested by Interpol in New Jersey, USA on 14 May 1987, a federal magistrate approved his extradition on 6 February 1988[5] after he requested to go back home(the request was earlier denied thrice)[6]and he was deported back to India in February 2000 after lengthy legal cases and was sentenced to life imprisonment on 24 February 2003. Finally his life sentence was commuted on 20 May 2009.[7]"
"Former Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, Ajay Maken is his nephew. His only child (daughter) Avantika Maken is married to Ashok Tanwar, Ex-President of Indian Youth Congress and Member of Parliament. Both Ajay Maken and Avantika Maken repeatedly pleaded for the release of Lalit Maken’s alleged killer Ranjit Singh Gill alias Kukki.[2][8][9]"
"The Jharsuguda–Vizianagaram line is a railway line in eastern India. It connects Jharsuguda, on the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line, and Titlagarh, which in turn is connected with Vizianagaram, on the Howrah-Chennai main line, and Raipur, on the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line. There are several branch lines, the more important are the ones which connect Sambalpur and Barang on the Howrah-Chennai line and Rayagada with Koraput on the Kothavalasa-Kirandul line. The line traverses western Odisha and connects the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line with the Howrah-Chennai main line. It covers small portions of Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh."
"The Jharsaguda-Titlagarh line starts from Jharsuguda, at the north western end of Odisha, on the Tatanagar-Bilaspur section of Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line, and goes through the Ib river valley.[1] It crosses the Mahanadi River, downstream from Hirakud Dam.[2] The railway track passes through hilly areas interspersed with valleys of the tributaries of the Mahanadi, the important amongst which are the Ong and Tel.[3]"
"The Raipur-Titlagarh-Vizianagaram line sets off from Raipur, in the fertile Mahanadi valley of Chhattisgarh, on the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line.[4] It passes through the rocky Mahasamund district of central Chhattisgarh before entering Odisha.[5] It enters the plains of Nuapada district in western Odisha,[6] then through the Eastern Ghats in southern Odisha, on to the coastal plains of Andhra Pradesh. It meets the Howrah-Chennai main line at Vizianagaram.[7]"
"The area covered by this line (including branch lines) is rich in mineral resources.[8] There are two coalfields in the area with high quantum of reserves. According to Geological Survey of India, the Talcher Coalfield has reserves of 38.65 billion tonnes, the highest in India. Ib Valley Coalfield has reserves of 22.3 billion tonnes, the third highest in India.[9]NTPC Limited has two power stations in Odisha, both are on this line – the 3000 MW Talcher Super Thermal Power Station and the 460 MW Talcher Thermal Power Station.[10][11] NTPC has planned two more super thermal power plants of 1600 MW each at Darlipalli in Sundergarh district and Gajamara in Dhenkanal district.[12] Sterlite Energy Ltd. (of the Vedanta group) has a 2400 MW Independent Power Plant at Jharsuguda.[13]"
"The mainline of Bengal Nagpur Railway from Nagpur to Asansol was opened for goods traffic on 1 February 1891. Between 1893 and 1896, 1,288 km (800 mi) of the historical East Coast Railway was opened for traffic. In 1898-99, two important lines of BNR, namely Sini-Kharagpur-Kolaghat and Kharagpur-Cuttack were opened, thereby linking BNR to the lines in southern India.[21]"
The Sambalpur-Talcher line was sanctioned in 1983 and was completed in 1998.[24]
Jharsuguda–Vizianagaram line
"Kendrapara Autonomous College is a co-aid non governmental autonomous college located in town of Kendrapada, Odisha. The autonomous college was established in the year 1959. In the year 2005 UGC granted this college it's autonomous status to run it's undergraduate educational curriculum. The college got its accreditation by NACC[2] with grade A certification in the year 2005. The autonomous college offers students three years of regular undergraduate courses in degreee of Arts (B.A), (B.A. Hons), Commerce (B.Com, B.Com. Hons) and Science (B.Sc.) (B.Sc. Hons)."
"Google Play Services is a proprietary background service and API package for Android devices.[1] When first introduced in 2012, it provided simple access to the Google+ APIs and OAuth 2.0, but has since then expanded to cover a large variety of Google's services, allowing applications to easily communicate with the services through common means, being internally referred to as simply GMS.[2] As of January, 2014, it has been downloaded more than one billion times on Android devices.[3]"
Included tools
Google Play Game Services
Google+
"The Google+ platform provides single sign-on, allowing the user to be automatically authenticated inside applications providing a more personalized experience, and sharing options using Google+.[7]"
Maps
"Google Maps Android API allows applications to include Google Maps or Street View without the need to open a separate application, allowing full control over the camera and providing means of adding custom markers and overlays over the map.[8]"
Drive
"Google Drive Android API exposes Google Drive to be used as a storage structure, providing easy lookup and syncing of documents along with various other tools for manipulating the files.[9]"
Ads
"Google Mobile Ads integrate advertisements into applications, allowing simple monetization by over a million Google advertisers and sophisticated ad targeting based on factors such as user location.[11]"
Wallet
"Google Wallet Instant Buy allows purchases of services and goods to be done from a Google Wallet, providing a streamlined flow of just a few taps with minimized data entry done by the user.[12]"
Version history
Adoption
"Google Play Services is automatically updated through Google Play on devices with the Google Play Store application installed running Android 2.3 or newer.[1] This means Google can do fast, silent rollouts of updates, providing new functionality to old devices without manufactures having to update the Android firmware itself, working around the fragmentation of the platform for which it had become infamous.[30]"
Ib Thermal Power Station (ITPS) is a coal-based thermal power plant located near Jharsuguda town in Jharsuguda district in the Indian state of Odisha. The power plant is operated by the state owned Orissa Power Generation Corporation.
The coal for the plant is sourced from Ib Valley Coalfield. Water is sourced from reservoir of Hirakud Dam.
Capacity
"Its installed capacity is of 420 MW (2x210). The construction of two more units of capacity 1320 MW (2x660) has commenced at the same location to the existing plant for which the Engineering, procurement and construction contract is given to BHEL.[1]"
Vedanta Jharsuguda Power Station is a coal based thermal captive power plant located near Jharsuguda town in Jharsuguda district in the Indian state of Odisha. The power plant is operated by the Vedanta Resources. It supplies power to aluminum smelter of Vedanta Resources.
"The coal for the plant is sourced from Ib Valley Coalfield. Water is sourced from reservoir of Hirakud Dam.[1] The Engineering, procurement and construction contract is given to SEPCO3 of People's Republic of China.[2]"
"The plant outputs 1,215 MW using nine 135 MW clusters (9x135 MW). [3]"
Sterlite Jharsuguda Power Station is a coal-based thermal power plant located at Burkhamunda near Jharsuguda town in Jharsuguda district in the Indian state of Odisha. The power plant is operated by the Sterlite Energy.
"The coal for the plant is sourced from Ib Valley Coalfield. Water is sourced from reservoir of Hirakud Dam. The Engineering, procurement and construction contract is given to SEPCO3 of People's Republic of China.[1]"
Capacity
It is a 2400 MW (4×600 MW) project.
"Bhushan Steel Limited is the largest manufacturer of auto-grade steel in India[1] Bhushan Steel, with a large amount of debt in proportion to its equity (3.5 times more), is a highly leveraged company. The company's consolidated debt stands at ₹31,839 crore, having risen 18 per cent from a year ago. The Company is spending Rs. 260 billion to expand its capacity to 12 million tonnes annually,[2][3] from the present installed capacity of around one million tonnes.[4]"
Financials and management
Gross sales of Bhushan Steel grew from Rs.5 billion in 2001 to Rs.40 billion in 2007. It earned net profits of Rs.3.13 billion in 2007 and exported goods worth Rs.12.57 billion. Its exports include steel for both the automotive and white goods industry and the list of countries to which it exports includes several developed countries.[4]
Brij Bhushan Singal is chairman of the board of directors of Bhushan Steel. Neeraj Singal is the managing director of Bhushan Steel Limited.[4]
"The Khopoli plant in Maharashtra was commissioned in 2004 and has been producing colour-coated sheets, high-tensile steel strappings, hardened and tempered steel strips for the first time in India, along with CRCA steel to cater to the needs of the automobile industry.[5]"
"At its Sahibabad plant in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, it has a 1700 mm mill, which produces the widest sheets in India for the automotive industry. It has highly automated systems.[4]"
"At its Meramandali, Dhenkanal plant in Orissa, Bhusan Steel produces hot rolled coils and has mills for hot rolling. Construction of the first phase is being carried out.[4]"
"Bhushan Power and Steel Limited has seven plants at four locations – Chandigarh, Derabassi in Punjab, Bangihatti, near Dankuni in West Bengal, and Thelkoloi in Odisha.[6]"
Expansion projects
"Its biggest expansion is in Odisha – it has signed an agreement with the Government of Odisha for setting up of a three million tonnes capacity steel plant at Meramandali in Dhenkanal district,[8] and as part of its total integration of the steel value chain, Bhushan Steel is in the process of setting up a power plant and an advanced hot rolling plant on 3,200 acres (13 km2) at Meramandali in Dhenkanal district near Angul, at a cost of 52 billion and its subsequent backward integration and expansion to 4 million tonnes.[3][9]"
This corporation or company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e
"TRL Krosaki Refractories Limited (Formerly Tata Refractories Limited)[1] is an Indian refractory company. It was established in 1958 in Belpahar. It mainly produces Basic, Dolomite, High Alumina, Monolithics, Silica, flow control products and Tap Hole Clay refractories having a consolidated installed capacity of 3,04,760 TPA (FY'10). Its key customers are the Steel, Cement, Glass, Copper and Aluminium industries.During the year 2010-11, the Company has achieved the distinction of being the first Indian refractories company to cross Rs.1000 Crores consolidated turnover."
"In 1958, Tata steel formed a new refractory factory at Belpahar with collaboration with a German company names Belpahar refractories Limited. Later it has been named as TATA REFRACTORIES LIMITED . In 2011 TATA has sold 51% of its shares to Krosaki Harima Corporation [2] of Japan, hence name changed to TRL-Krosaki Refractories Limited."
TRL Krosaki Refractories Limited
Paikmal is a town in Bargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"Paikmal is located at 20°33′N 82°29′E﻿ / ﻿20.55°N 82.49°E﻿ / 20.55; 82.49. It has an average elevation of 265 metres (869 ft). It is almost 107 kilometres (66 mi) from its district headquarters, Bargarh. It is about 477 kilometres (296 mi) from its capital city of Bhubaneshwar. Paikmal is a block of Padampur subdivision,distance from Paikmal to Padampur is about 31 kilometres (19 mi). The area around Paikmal is rain-fed and hence is prone to frequent droughts. The Gandhamardhan hills is about 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) away and forms the borders between Bargarh and Balangir districts. Till date the beautiful locale has not been spoiled by industrialisation, but the per capita income is very low. Nrusinghanath Temple of Gandhamardhan hills is almost famous in all over the Orissa for lord Nrusingha."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Paikmal had a population of 3916. Male population was 2027 and female population was 1889,this is little low to compare with males population. Paikmal has an literacy rate about nearly 61%."
Politics
"[2] from 2009 till 2013 Bijay Ranjan Singh Bariha of Biju Janata Dal had been the MLA. He also won this seat earlier for BJD in 2000 and for JD in 1995 and in 1990. Other previous MLAs from this seat were Satya Narayan Sahu of INC who won this seat in 2004, in 1985 for INC and in 1980 representing INC(I)"
"Melchhamunda is a village in Bargarh district in the Indian state Odisha. It is situated 21 km from Padampur and 60 km from Bargarh on the Padampur state highway. Buddhist relics have been found at Ganiapali 10 km from the village, and it is identified with ancient Muchalinda, which is said to be a centre of Buddhist learning. The Bhoi Family are the head of the village."
"Diptipur (part of revenue village Jhununga pali) is just 1 km from here. It is noted for the missionary activities of the Utkal Christian Council which started work here in 1956. The activities of the Mission are divided into 3 wings -Health, Education and Agriculture. A dispensary was started in the year 1957, which then became a hospital in 1958."
"This article about a location in Bargarh district, Odisha, India is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e"
"The Indian Institute of Management Sambalpur (IIM-SBP)[1] is an autonomous public Business School in Sambalpur, Odisha, India."
"Established in the year 2015, IIM Sambalpur is the 19th Indian Institute of Management in India. The first batch of Post Graduation Program (PGP) in Management at IIM Sambalpur[2] started in September, 2015. On 23 September 2015, Shri Sanjay Kumar Das Burma, Minister of State, Employment and Technical Education & Training, Govt of Odisha inaugurated academic session at IIM-Sambalpur. The temporary campus of IIM Sambalpur has been set up in Silicon Institute of Technology, Sason, Sambalpur, Odisha."
"Sambalpur is a city in Sambalpur district in the Indian state of Odisha. It lies at a distance of 321 km from the state capital Bhubaneswar. In the year 1876, Sambalpur was established as a municipality. It is currently the headquarters and the largest city of Sambalpur district. It is also the commercial capital of Western Odisha. Sambalpur is famous for Hirakud Dam, Sambalpuri Saree, Sambalpuri songs, Sambalpuri dance, the Sitalsasthi Carnival,[1][2] The Leaning Temple of Huma and Gandhi temple.[3]"
List of educational organizations in Sambalpur
Universities and colleges
Indian Institute of Management Sambalpur Odisha State of Open University
Sambalpur University Official website
"The Sambalpur University Act was passed by the Odisha legislature on 10 December 1966, the university started functioning from 1 January 1967 with Prof. Parsuram Mishra as the first Vice Chancellor. In the year 1973 the University was shifted to the present campus named Jyoti Vihar at Burla."
Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology
"VSSUT (earlier University College of Engineering, Burla) was established in the year 1956 as the first engineering college of the state of Odisha. It has already produced more than 10,000 graduate engineers and 2000 post graduates in different fields of engineering and technology."
"SUIIT has been established in the year 2010 as an autonomous constituent institute of Sambalpur University in the line of IIITs to impart training and to have quality research programme relating to Information Technology and allied subjects.SUIITis a unique venture to make use of the decades of rich academic experience and achievements of the University in diverse fields for nurturing the young minds in the contemporary globalized environment where the demand is for innovation, research and technical skill of international standard."
School
Sports
"Chandra Sekhar Behera Zilla School, Sambalpur is a government educational institution providing education at the high school level.[1] Subjects taught include the Humanities, Social Sciences, Physical Sciences, etc. The main objective of this institution is to disseminate knowledge to the students in different fields. Simultaneously this institution also aims at the overall development of the students' physical, mental and moral capacities. Games and Sports are also an integral part of this institution which inspires the students to be physically fit. There are also many societies and associations related to social service and cultural programmes. N.C.C., Rovers and Rangers (a Scouting organization), Red Cross etc. to build enthusiasm and a feeling of national integration in the students.[1]"
Gopaipali is a small village under Barpali block in Bargarh District with village code 72500 as per 2001 Census.[2]
"According to 2011 Census of India, Gopaipali has 377 families with a population of 1322.[3] The male population is 722 and female population is 673. The population of children between 0 to 6 years of age is 145. Though the average sex ratio is 932 (lower than that of Odisha: 979); the child sex ratio is 1042, which is overwhelmingly high."
"The literacy rate of Gopaipali is 71.28%; slightly lower than 72.87%, the average literacy of Odisha. The male literacy is 80.95% and female literacy is 60.77%."
Almost all of the villagers are Hindu.
"Gopaipali village is a part of the Gopaipali Gram Panchayat.[4] As per the Panchayati Raj Act, Gopaipali village is administrated by a Sarpanch elected by the eligible citizens in the Gopaipali Gram Panchayat. It comes under the Barpali Panchayat Samiti, and Bargarh Zila Parishad."
"The village is divided into 5 wards, each having its own elected ward member who represent the ward in the Gram Panchayat."
Facilities
"The Gram-Panchayat office of the Gopaipali Gram-Panchayat is situated in the village. Gopaipali UGUPS,[5] a primary school and Gopaipali High School, a secondary school provide for the education facility. Apart from that the village has a youth club and a post-office with PIN 768029 under Barpali Post Office [6]"
"By Rail: The nearest railway station to Gopaipali is Barpali Railway Station (BRPL),[7] which is just 3 km away from the village. Other major stations include Bargarh (20 km away), Sambalpur (70 km away), Dunguripali (17 km away). By road: The village is well connected to Barpali and Sohela by road. The communication is facilitated by bus and rickshaws."
"As a typical western Odisha village, the festivals Nuakhai and Durga Puja etc. are observed with much celebration. Most of the festivals are also inspired by the Odia culture. However, the festival Sitalsasthi is celebrated with great pomp and gaiety, wherein the marriage between Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati is depicted each year.[8] Besides that, the Nama sankeerthanam takes place in the village each year during the advent of the spring."
"The economy of the village is largely dependent on agriculture, though small scale industries are ushering up these days."
"Talcher Autonomous College, Talcher, is a degree college offering instruction in Arts, Science and Commerce. it also offers Vocational Education in two trades and Elective subjects in Computer Science and Bio-Technology."
"The college was founded as a Tutorial College in 1969, in a rented building overlooking the river Brahmani. It subsequently got approval and University affiliation for Intermediate in Arts (IA) from the session 1970-71, The IGNOU authorities has chosen Talcher Autonomous College as a Special study Center in the year 2005 considering the demand of the local people."
Talcher Autonomous College
Rourkela Law College is a privately aided co-aid law school located in Nayabazar of sector 21 in the city of Rourkela. Rourkela Law school[1][2][3] was established in the year 1974 which is affiliated to Sambalpur University and Bar Council of India (BCI). The school offers law students three years regular course for undergraduate degree of LLB. The undergraduate students are admitted through national level selection test of Common Law Admission Test.
"CIPET or Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology is an autonomous institute under the department of chemicals and petrochemicals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Government of India.[1][2]"
"CIPET headquarters was established at Chennai in 1968 with UNDP assistance. It receives funding support from the administration ministry, OPEC, UNIDO and the World Bank. It is believed that CIPET was founded by Brigadier. A F. Eugene. who is also the founder of MES."
"This is the only institute of this kind in India where all facilities like design, tooling, processing and testing of plastics are available under one roof.[citation needed] CIPET caters to the needs of plastic industries through manpower training, processing, design and CAD/CAM/CAE, testing, consultancy, advisory and developmental services."
"To meet the needs of plastics conversion industry, CIPET has established extension centres in many states of the country. Each centre of the CIPET has been equipped with machinery in the area of mould/product design and development, CAD, plastic processing and testing/quality control. Apart from developing training manpower and technical services for plastics industries, each centre has been entrusted with a specific thrust area for development."
Admission
Admissions to diploma and post diploma courses are done by CIPET-JEE. Short term courses admissions are held often. For Undergraduate and Postgraduate and Doctoral research programs the admission is through respective universities affiliated to. Contact individual centers for further information.
Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (India)
"Asia in 323 BCE, showing borders of the Nanda Empire in relation to Alexander's Empire and neighbours."
"The Nanda dynasty originated from the region of Magadha in ancient India during the 4th century BCE and lasted between 345–321 BCE. At its greatest extent, the empire ruled by the Nanda Dynasty extended from Bengal in the east, to the Punjab region in the west and as far south as the Vindhya Range.[2] The rulers of this dynasty were famed for the great wealth which they accumulated. The Nanda Empire was later conquered by Chandragupta Maurya, who founded the Maurya Empire."
Establishment of the dynasty
"Mahapadma Nanda, who has been described in the Puranas as ""the destroyer of all the Kshatriyas"", defeated many other kingdoms, including the Panchalas, Kasis, Haihayas, Kalingas,[3] Asmakas, Kurus, Maithilas, Surasenas and the Vitihotras; to name a few.[4][5] He expanded his territory south of the Vindhya Range into the Deccan Plateau. The Nandas, who usurped the throne of the Shishunaga dynasty c. 345 BCE,[6] were thought to be of low origin.[7] He was the son of Mahanandin, a Kshatriya king of the Shishunaga dynasty and a Shudra mother.[8]"
Military
"The Nanda kings built on the foundations laid by their Haryanka and Shishunaga predecessors to create the first great empire of north India.[1] To achieve this objective they built a vast army, consisting of 200,000 infantry, 20,000 cavalry, 2,000 war chariots and 3,000 war elephants (at the lowest estimates).[9][10] According to the Greek historian Plutarch, the size of the Nanda army was even larger, numbering 200,000 infantry, 80,000 cavalry, 8,000 war chariots, and 6,000 war elephants.[9][11] However, the Nandas never had the opportunity to see their army up against Alexander, who invaded North-western India at the time of Dhana Nanda, since Alexander was forced to confine his campaign to the plains of Punjab and Sindh, for his forces, mutinied at the river Beas and refused to go any further upon encountering ""the 4000 well trained and well equipped war elephants of the Gangaridei (Nanda)"" according to Diodorus.[9][12]"
"A possible indication of Nanda military victories in Kalinga is suggested by the later Hathigumpha inscription of Kharavela, which mentions a King named Nanda building a canal and conquering a place. The existence of a place called Nau Nand Dehra (Nanded) on the Godavari is taken by some scholars as reflecting Nanda rule over the Deccan. The evidence for the extension of Nanda rule into trans-Vindhyan India is not, however, strong.[1]"
Wealth
"The Nandas were also renowned for their immense wealth. They undertook irrigation projects and invented standardized measures for trade across their empire, and they ruled with the assistance of many ministers.[3] The Nanda Dynasty was also mentioned in the ancient Sangam literature of the Tamil people. The famous Tamil poet Mamulanar of the Sangam literature described the capital city Pataliputra of the Nanda Dynasty and the wealth and treasure that was accumulated by the great Nanda rulers.[13] Their unpopularity, possibly due to their ""financial extortion"", facilitated a revolution, leading to their overthrow by Chandragupta Maurya and Kautilya. Nevertheless, ""the greatness [...] attained in the Maurya Age would hardly have been possible but for the achievements of their predecessors"", the Nandas.[3]"
In literature
A passage of the Kathasaritsagara refers to the kataka (camp) of Nanda in Ayodhya.[4]
Nanda Empire
"Akhadachandi Temple (Odia: ଅଖଡ଼ଚଣ୍ଡି ମନ୍ଦିର) is a 10th-century temple in Bhubaneswar (Lat.20°14’46”N.,Long.85°60’02”E.,Elev.61 ft) in the state of Odisha, India. The temple is situated in the south-western embankment of Bindusagar tank in Badu Sahi, Old town."
"It is 15 metres east of Markandesvara temple and to the north-west of Mohini temple at a distance of 30 metres. The presiding deity is Mahisasuramardini. The temple is facing towards south and the presiding deity is facing towards east. Various religious sacraments like Durgastami and Balabhoga are performed here. The temple is maintained by Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation. It is in fair state of preservation. The temple was repaired by the Odisha State Archaeology under the X and XI Finance Commission Award. The temple is surrounded by Bindusagar tank in the east at a distance of 6.40 metres, Markandeya temple in the west and private residential buildings in the southern side."
Architecture
"The temple is constructed in the Kalingan style using coarse-grained sandstone. The main temple is a Khakhara Deul. It is rectangular on plan measuring 1.28 metres x 1.83 metres. On elevation, the vimana is of khakhara order measuring 42.94 metres in height from pabhaga to mastaka. From bottom to the top the temple has bada, gandi and mastaka. With fivefold divisions the bada measures 1.74 metres. At the bottom the pabhaga measures 0.26 metres in height. Jangha measuring 0.52 metres is segmented into tala jangha and upara jangha by a set of bandhana moulding. Bandhana measures 0.08 metres and baranda measures in 0.26 metres. Gandi of the temple is in khakhara order which is arranged in three tires with a semi cylindrical roof. The mastaka of the temple consists of a kalasa flanked by two gajakranta on either sides.[citation needed]"
Decorative features
The doorjamb is decorated with two plaster design measuring 1.10 metres x 0.65 metres. Besides the main entrance there are two subsidiary gateways in the eastern and northern walls. These two gateways are uniform in measurement measuring 0.92 metres x 0.59 metres.[citation needed]
Astasambhu Siva Temple Astasambhu Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°15′2″N 85°51′18″E﻿ / ﻿20.25056°N 85.85500°E﻿ / 20.25056; 85.85500Coordinates: 20°15′2″N 85°51′18″E﻿ / ﻿20.25056°N 85.85500°E﻿ / 20.25056; 85.85500 Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneswar Elevation 33 m (108 ft) Culture Primary deity Lord Siva Architecture Architectural styles Kalinga Architecture History and governance Date built 10th century A.D.
"Astasambhu Siva Temples is a collection of 8 Hindu temples dedicated to Lord Siva located in Bhubaneswar, the capital of Orissa, India.[1]"
"In the Uttaresvara Siva Temple precinct there are eight temples of identical size and dimension locally known as Astasambhu. Ashta means eight and Sambhu refers to another name of Lord Shiva. Five of them are arranged in one alignment are also known as Panchu Pandava. The temple is under the private ownership and is maintained by the Ratnakara Gargabatu and family. According to architectural features like bada division and pabhaga mouldings, this temple was built around 10th Century A.D. This is a building made up of stones and its typology is Rekha Deul. The temple is surrounded by Godavari tank in the east, Uttaresvara Siva Temple compound wall in west, and Bindusagar tank in south beyond the compound wall. The temple has an east facing shrine."
Uttaresvara Siva Temple
"K. C. Panigrahi, Archaeological Remains at Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, 1961. P. 19. T. E. Donaldson, Hindu Temple Art of Orissa, Vol. I, Leiden, 1985, P. 64."
""
Astasambhu Siva Temples
"Bharati Matha Temple is a temple of the Hindu God Siva. This is one of the oldest temples in Bhubaneswar (The Temple city of India), a well known heritage place and capital of the State of Orissa. The temple is a Hindu monastery with three stories which was built in the 11th century AD. It is currently used for living Matha purposes and earlier it was used as a Hindu pilgrimage centre."
"Bharati Matha is located in the Badheibanka Chowk, Old Town Bhubaneswar. One can approach the Matha on the left side of Ratha road leading from Lingaraja to Ramesvara Goswami is the present Mahanta of the Matha. It is one of the oldest Hindu monasteries of Bhubaneswar."
Tradition and legends
"According to local legend as narrated by the Mahanta, the monastery was established by Yajati Kesari, the builder of the Lingaraja Temple, and the Matha was initially used to house the artisans who were engaged in the construction of Lingaraja Temple."
This temple is not under any private ownership and comes under public property. It is under the care and maintenance of the Endowment Department and on the personal supervision of Matha Mahanta Pranab Kishore Bharati Goswami.
"Rituals like Kartika purnima, Prathamastami, Durga puja, etc., are celebrated. During Prathamastami, Lord Lingaraja comes here to visit his uncle in the Matha."
"Marriage ceremonies, thread ceremonies, engagements and name giving ceremonies are observed."
Architectural features
"The Matha is square on a plan measuring 26.00 square mts. The Matha stands on a high platform measuring 1.50 metres and it has seven mouldings. On elevation, the Matha is a three storied building measuring 11.50 metres in height. With a central courtyard, there are three living rooms in each side of the Matha. Each room measures 6.15 metres in length x 3.45 metres in width. The Matha is enclosed by a massive compound wall that measures 53.60 square metres with a height of 2.52 metres."
Reference notes
Bharati Matha Temple
"The Bhringesvara Siva temple is situated on the foothills of Dhauli and the left bank of the river Daya, in the southeastern outskirts of Bhubaneswar in the village Khatuapada. The temple is facing towards west and the presiding deity is a circular yoni pitha with a hole at the centre. The temple is made of light grey sand stone. The temple is renovated one from bottom to the top by employing the earlier materials. This temple is now under the protection of Orissa State Archaeology."
Names
Past Name Bhairangesvara
Significance
i) Historic significance: —
"ii) Cultural significance: Various rituals and festivals are observed like; Sivaratri, Kartika-purnima, Raja Sankranti, Jalasaya ceremony."
"iii) Social significance: Thread ceremony, mundana, marriage ceremony are performed."
iv) Associational significance: Village public meetings are held in the premises.
Physical description
"i) Surrounding: The temple is surrounded by the hillock of Dhauli on its eastern side. A road leading to the village on its western side in its front, and the extension of Dhauli hill on both the southern and northern sides."
This article about an Indian Hindu place of worship is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e
"The Brahma Temple is located in the eastern embankment of Bindusagar, on the left side road leading from Lingaraj Temple. The temple is surrounded by Bindusagar tank on the west in Bhubaneswar."
Legend
"Lord Brahma came to Bhubaneswar to attend the coronation of Lingaraj Deva. Here he was requested to stay forever, but he assured that he will come every year on the month of Chaitra for the Ashokashtami festival. Again he assured that he will be the charioter (Sarathy) of the Rukuna Rath of Shri Lingaraja. So a temple was erected in honour of him near Bindusagar."
"The main temple is of late Kalingan style dating back to 15th century. The present temple was built during the Gajapati Rulers. A four-handed black chlorite image of Brahma holding Veda and water vessel in upper two hands and rosary, abhaya mudra in lower two hands. A visit to Lingaraj Temple is incomplete without visiting this temple and Ananta Vasudeva Temple. Currently the daily worship is done by Brahmins belonging to Panda family."
"Suresvara Mahadeva temple, also known as Byamokesvava temple, is located in the Tala bazaar market complex, Old Town of Bhubaneswar, the capital of the state of Orissa. The temple is located in front of the Lingaraj Temple across the road in the left side of the eastern gateway at a distance of 10.00 m. The temple faces towards the west. It is a living temple and the enshrined deity is a Siva lingam with a circular yonipitha at the centre of the sanctum. At present the sanctum is 1.50 m below the present road level. It is a recently recovered temple that had been buried. It was built in 10th century AD. The temple is maintained by the local shopkeepers."
"The locals ascribe the temple to the Kesharis (Somavamsis). Festivals like Maha Shivratri or Sivaratri, Sankranti, Jalabhisheka etc. are observed."
The Temple
"The temple is surrounded by shops on the northern and southern sides, residential buildings to the east and the road to the west. Except the entrance on the west the entire temple is buried up to the baranda portion of the bada. Hence the ground plan of the temple could not be ascertained. However it is pancharatha in plan with a central raha and pairs of anuratha and kanika pagas on either side of the raha. There are five flights of steps leading down into the sanctum which is 1.50 m below the present road level. In elevation, the vimana is of rekha deul and measures 7.00 m in height from baranda to mastaka. The gandi measures 5.00 m and the mastaka measures 2.00 m in height."
Byamokesvara Temple
"The first ever Sambalpuri movie released was Bhukha or Bhuka. It was released in the year 1989 and was directed by Sabyasachi Mohapatra. It was also the first film from Odisha to get an International Jury Award at the Gijon International Film Festival. The second film in Sambalpuri language is Ulugulan (revolution), which will be releasing soon. The new film, directed by Mahmood Hussain and produced by Purnabasi Sahu, is set in the first half of the 18th century and depicts the tyrannical rule of the Nagpur rulers.[1]"
List
Bhukha produced and directed by Sabyasachi Mohapatra - 1989 Jury International Award Gijón International Film Festival Raja Hindustani Sholay Ulugulan - 2010 Samiya'r Khel - 2011 Chini Alar : The Orphan - 2012 Salaa Budha - 2013 - (directed by Sabyasachi Mohapatra ) Aadim Bichar -2014 - (directed by Sabyasachi Mohapatra ) won National Award 2015 Saha Mate Maa Samalei - 2015 MUNUSH (produced by Dhananjaya Tripathy and directed by Santanu Dash)
"National Highway 16 (NH 16), (previously NH 5), is a major National Highway in India, that runs along east coast of West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. It is renumbered as NH 16. The northern terminal is at National Highway 19 near Kolkata and the southern terminal is at Chennai in Tamil Nadu. It is a part of the Golden Quadrilateral project undertaken by National Highways Development Project.[1][2]"
"It passes through Berhampur, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Baripada and ends at Jharpokharia, where it meets NH 6 in Odisha. In Andhra Pradesh, it passes through most of the coastal towns in nine coastal districts and covers the cities of Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Tadepalligudem, Eluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Chilakaluripet, Ongole and Nellore. In Tamil Nadu, it passes through Gummidipundi in Tiruvallur district and enters Chennai."
"NH 16 has a total length of 1,533 km (953 mi) and passes through the states of West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu."
Route length in states:[3]
"West Bengal: 161 km (100 mi) Odisha: 488 km (303 mi) Andhra Pradesh: 1,024 km (636 mi)[2] Tamil Nadu: 45 km (28 mi)"
Schematic map of National Highways in India
"On 28 April 2010, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways officially published a new numbering system for the national highway network in the Gazette of the Government of India.[1][2] It is a systematic numbering scheme based on the orientation and the geographic location of the highway. This was adopted to ensure more flexibility and consistency in the numbering of existing and new national highways.[3]"
As per the new numbering system:[4]
"All north-south oriented highways will have even numbers increasing from the east to the west All east-west oriented highways will have odd numbers increasing from the north to the south All major Highways will be single digit or double digit in number Three digit numbered highways are secondary routes or branches of a main highway. The secondary route number is prefixed to the number of the main highway. For example, 144, 244, 344 etc. will be the branches of the main NH44 Suffixes A, B, C, D etc. are added to the three digit sub highways to indicate very small spin-offs or stretches of sub-highways"
List of National Highways
"List of National Highways of India sorted by highway number[1] NH No. (Primary NH) NH No. (Secondary NH) OSM Rel. States Length Route 1 3194791 (map ) Jammu and Kashmir 535 km (332 mi) (NH1A) Uri, Baramula, (NH1D) Srinagar, Kargil, Lehघ 2 3194847 (map ) Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram 1,214 km (754 mi) (NH37) NH15 near Dibrugrah, Sibsagar, (NH61) Jhanji, Amguri, Mokokchung, Wohka, (NH39) Kohima, (NH150) Imphal, Churachandpur, (NH54) Seling, Serchhip, Lawngtla, Tuipang 102 3207333 Manipur 107 km (66 mi) (NH39) NH2 near Imphal, Moreh 202 3207789 Nagaland, Manipur 460 km (290 mi) (NH155) NH2 near Mokokchung, Tuensang, Sampurre, Meluri, (NH150) Jessami, Ukhrul, NH2 near Imphal 302 3208481 Mizoram 10 km (6.2 mi) (NH54A) NH2 near Therait, Lunglei 502 3208496 Mizoram 23 km (14 mi) (NH54B) NH2 near Venus Saddle, Saiha 3 3195225 (map ) Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir 427 km (265 mi) (NH1) Atari, Amritsar, (NH70) Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Naduan, Hamirpur, Toni Devi, Awa Devi, (NH21) Mandi, Kullu, Manali 103 3208959 Himachal Pradesh 58 km (36 mi) (NH88) NH3 near Hamirpur, Bhota, Ghumarwain, NH154 near Ghaghas 303 3209917 Himachal Pradesh 60 km (37 mi) (NH20A) NH154 near Nagrota, (NH88) Daulatur, Ranital, Jawalamukhi, NH3 near Nadaun 503 3209984 Himachal Pradesh 70 km (43 mi) (NH88) NH154 near Mataur, Kangra, (NH20A) Ranital, Dera Gopipur, NH3 near Mubarakpur 703 3210116 Punjab 144 km (89 mi) (NH71) NH44 near Jaland, Nakodar, Mahatpur, Moga, Badhni, NH7 near Barnala 4 3210218 Andaman & Nicobar 230 km (140 mi) (NH223) Mayabandar, Port Blair, Chiriyatapu 5 3195290 Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh 637 km (396 mi) (NH95) Firozepur, Moga, Jagraon, Ludhiana, (NH21) Kharar, (NH22) Chandigarh, Kalka, Solan, Shimla, Theog, Narkanda, Rampur, Chini, Shipkila 105 3210467 Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana 67 km (42 mi) (NH21A) NH5 near Pinjore, Baddi, Nalagarh, NH205 near Swarghat 205 3210477 Himachal Pradesh, Punjab 183 km (114 mi) (NH21) Kharar Ropar, Swarghat, (NH88) Nauni, Darlaghat, NH5 near Shimla 6 3257907 Meghalaya, Assam, Mizoram 1,873 km (1,164 mi) (NH40)N 37 near Jorabat, (NH44)Shillong, (NH53)Badarpur, (NH154)Panchgram, (NH54)Kolasib,Kanpui, Aizawl, NH2 near Selling 106 3258906 Meghalaya 82 km (51 mi) (NH44E) Shillong, Nongstoin 206 3258935 Meghalaya 126 km (78 mi) (NH40) Jowai, Dauki, Mylliem 306 3258947 Assam, Mizoram (NH54) Kolasib, Silchar 7 3195344 Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand 770 km (480 mi) (NH10) Fazilka, (NH15) Abohar, Malaut, (NH64) Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala, Rajpura, (NH73) Panchkula, Raipur Rani, (NH72) Narayangarh, Dhanana, Ponta-Sahib, Dehradun, (NH58) Rishikesh, Devprayag, Rudraprayag, Karnaprayag, Chamoli, Badrinath, Mana 107 3210938 Uttarakhand 74 km (46 mi) (NH109) Rudraprayag, Guptkashi Phata, Gaurikund 307 3210976 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh 46 km (29 mi) (NH72A) Dehradun, Mohand, Biharigarh, Chhutmalpur 507 3211487 Uttarakhand 109 km (68 mi) (NH123) Harbatpur, Vikasnagar, Kalsi, Barkot, 707 3211535 Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand 151 km (94 mi) (NH72B) Paonta Sahib, Rajban, Shillai, Minas, Minus-Tiuni, Hatkoti 907 3211948 Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana 60 km (37 mi) (NH73A) Paonta Sahib, Darpur, Ledi, Mustafabad, Jagadhri, Yamuna Nagar 8 3211965 Assam, Tripura 371 km (231 mi) (NH44) Karimganj, Patharkandi, Churaibari, Ambasa, Teliamura, Agartala, Udaipur, Sabrum Indo 108 3213212 Tripura, Mizoram (NH44A) Namu, Mamit, Lengpui, Sairang, Aizawl 9 3196981 Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand 811 km (504 mi) (NH10) Malaut, Dabwali, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Hansi, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, (NH24) Delhi, Ghaziabad, Moradabad, (NH87) Rampur, Bilaspur, (NH74) Rudrapur, (NH125) Sitarganj-Khatima, Tanakpur, Pithoragarh 109 3213787 Uttarakhand 284 km (176 mi) (NH87) Rudrapur, Haldwani, Nainital, Bhowali, Almora, Ranikhet, Dwarahat, Chaukhutiya, Gairsaing, Aobadri, Karnaprayag 309 3214038 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh 287 km (178 mi) (NH74) Rudrapur, (NH121) Kashipur, Ramnagar, Dhumakot, Thalisain, Tripalisan, (NH119) Bubakhal, Pauri, Srinagar 509 3214363 Uttar Pradesh 239 km (149 mi) (NH93) Moradabad, Chandausi, Babrala, Aligarh, Agra 709 3214590 Haryana 68 km (42 mi) (NH71A) Rohtak, Gohana, Panipat 10 3214598 Sikkim, West Bengal 174 km (108 mi) (NH31) Siliguri, (NH31A) Sivok, Kalimpong, Gangtok, (NH310) border ?? 110 3214645 West Bengal 76 km (47 mi) (NH55) Siliguri,Kurseong, Darjeeling 11 3187168 Rajasthan 495 km (308 mi) (NH15) Jaisalmer, Pokaran, (NH11) Bikaner, Sri Dungargarh, Ratangarh, Fatehpur 12 3214746 West Bengal 612 km (380 mi) (NH34) Dalkola, Raiganj, Gajol, Maldah, Farakka, Morgram, Baharampur, Krishananagar, Ranaghat, Barasat, (NH117) Kolkata, Kakdwip, Bok-Khali 112 3214989 West Bengal 59 km (37 mi) (NH35) Barasat, Gaighata, Bangaon, border 13 3215052 Arunachal Pradesh, Assam 1,150 km (710 mi) (NH229) Tawang, Jang, Sela Lake, Baisakhi, Senge, Mohan Camp, Dirang, Dangsing, Bomdila, Tenga Valley, Kimi, Palizi, Seppa, Sagalee, Midpu, Hoz, Yazali, Ziro Town, Daporijo, Bam, Along, Biru, Pangin, Pasighat (NH-52). 113 Arunachal Pradesh 165 km (103 mi) (NH13) Hawacamp Hayuliang, Hawai 313 Arunachal Pradesh 235 km (146 mi) (NH13) near Meka, Anini 513 Arunachal Pradesh 140 km (87 mi) (NH13) Passighat, Mariyang, Yingkiong 713 Arunachal Pradesh 158 km (98 mi) (NH13) Joram, Palin, Sangram, Koloriang 14 3216171 West Bengal 306 km (190 mi) (NH60) Morgram, Rampur Hat, Siuri, Raniganj, (NH60A) Bankura, Garhbeta, Salbani, Kharagpur 114 3216499 West Bengal 109 km (68 mi) (NH2B Ext) Mallarpur, Mayureswar, Prantik, (NH2B) Bolpur, Bhedia, Guskhara, Talit, Barddhaman 314 3216523 West Bengal 87 km (54 mi) (NH60A) Bankura, Puruliya 15 3216908 Assam, Arunachal Pradesh 664 km (413 mi) (NH52) Baihata-Charali, Mangaldai, Dhekiajui, Tezpur, Banderdeva, North Lakhimpur, (NH52B) Kulajan, (NH37) Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, (NH52) Rupai, Mahadevpur, Wakro 115 3217348 Assam 64 km (40 mi) (NH37) Dum Duma, Saikhoaghat, Kundil Bazar, Roing 215 3217522 Assam (NH52B) Mahadevpur, Namchik, Changlang, Khonsa, Kanubari, Dibrugarh 315 3217452 Assam 111 km (69 mi) (NH153) Makum, Ledo, Lekhapani, border 415 3217523 Assam, Arunachal Pradesh 59 km (37 mi) (NH52A) Ghopur, Itanagar, Daimukh, Banderdeva 515 3217636 Assam, Arunachal Pradesh 111 km (69 mi) (NH52) Kulajan, Jonai, Pasighat 715 3217671 Assam 197 km (122 mi) (NH37A) Tejpur, (NH37) Kaliabor, Jakhalabandha, Bokakhat, Jorhat, Jhanji 16 3198047 West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu 1,659 km (1,031 mi) (NH6) Kolkata, (NH60) Kharagpur, (NH5) Baleshwar, Cuttack, Bhubaneshwar, Vishakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Nellore, Chennai 116 3218639 West Bengal 52 km (32 mi) (NH41) Kolaghat, Haldia Port 216 3218647 Andhra Pradesh 397 km (247 mi) (NH214) Kathipudi, Kakinada, (NH214A) Machilipatnam, Ongole 316 3281634 Odisha (NH203) NH16 near Bhubaneshwar - Puri - Konark, (NH203A) Puri - Satpada 516 3282556 Odisha 8.3 km (5.2 mi) (NH217) NH16 near Narendrapur - Gopalpur 716 3219078 Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu 147 km (91 mi) (NH205) Chennai, Tiruttani, Reangunta 17 3219773 West Bengal, Assam 477 km (296 mi) (NH31) NH10 near Sivok, Bagrakot, (NH31C) Chalsa, Nagarkata, (NH31) Goyerkata, Bispara, Falakata, Sonarpur, Koch-Bihar, Tufanganj, Golakganj, Bilasipara, (NH31B) North Salmana, (NH37) Goalpara, Boko, NH27 near Guwahati 117 3219792 Assam 14 km (8.7 mi) (NH31) NH17 near North Salmara, NH27 near Bijni 217 3219799 Assam, Meghalaya 307 km (191 mi) (NH51) NH17 near Paikan, Tura, (NH62) Dalu, Baghmara, Rongjeng Damra, NH17 near Dudhnai 317 3220294 West Bengal 67 km (42 mi) (NH31C) NH17 near Birpara, Madari Hat, Rajabaht Khawa, NH27 near Salsabari 517 West Bengal NH17 near Goyerkata, NH27 near Dhupgari 717 3259562 West Bengal 41 km (25 mi) NH17 near Chalsa, NH27 near Mainaguri 18 3220404 Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha 359 km (223 mi) (NH32) NH19 near Govindpur, Dhanbad Cas, Puruliya, Balarampur, (NH33) Chandil, Ghatshila, (NH6) Baharagora, (NH5) junction with NH49, Baripada, Betnoti, NH16 near Baleshwar 118 3291021 Jharkhand 5 km (3.1 mi) NH18 near Asanbani, Jamshedpur 19 3198928 Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal 1,435 km (892 mi) (NH2) Delhi, Mathura, Agra, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Mohania, Aurangabad, Dobhi, Barhi, Bagadar, Gobindpur, Asansol, Palsit, Kolkata 119 3220719 Bihar 75 km (47 mi) (NH2C) NH19 near Dehri, Jadunathpur, border Bihar/UP 319 3220892 Bihar 117 km (73 mi) (NH30) NH19 near Mohania, Dinara, Charpokhari, NH922 near Ara 519 3220940 Uttar Pradesh 28 km (17 mi) (NH2A) NH19 near Sikandara, NH27 near Bhognipur 719 3220992 Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh 124 km (77 mi) (NH92) NH19 near Etawah, Bhind, NH44 near Gwalior 919 3221023 Haryana, Madhya Pradesh 74 km (46 mi) (NH71B) NH19 near Palwal, Sohna, Dharuhera, NH352 near Rewari 20 3222093 Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha 658 km (409 mi) (NH31) NH31 near Bakhtiyarpur, Bihar Sharif, Nawada, Rajauli, Kodarma, (NH33) Barhi, Hazaribag, (NH75) Ranchi, Khunti, Murhu, Chakradharpur, Chaibasa, Jaintgarh, Parsora, (NH215) Kendujhargarh, NH16 near Panikholi 120 3222301 Bihar 92 km (57 mi) (NH82) NH20 near Bihar Sharif, Nalanda, Rajgir, Hisua, NH22 near Gaya 320 3222553 Jharkhand 86 km (53 mi) (NH23) NH20 near Ramgarh, Gola, NH18 near Chas 520 3222572 Odisha 105 km (65 mi) (NH125) Parsora, NH143 near Rajamundra 21 3189802 Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh 262 km (163 mi) (NH11) Jaipur, Dausa, Bharatpur, Agra 22 3222675 Bihar, Jharkhand 416 km (258 mi) (NH77) border near Sonbarsa, Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, (NH19) Hajipur, (NH83) Patna, Punpun, Gaya, Bodh Gaya, (NH99) Dobhi, Hunterganj, Chatra, NH39 near Chandwa 122 3222808 Bihar 101 km (63 mi) (NH28) NH22 near Muzaffarpur, Dholi, Mushrigharari, NH31 near Barauni 322 3222817 Bihar 58 km (36 mi) (NH103) NH22 near Hazipur, NH122 near Mushrigharari 522 3223144 Jharkhand 119 km (74 mi) (NH100) NH22 near Chatra, Hazaribagh, NH19 near Bagodar 722 3223177 Bihar 74 km (46 mi) (NH102) NH22 near Muzaffarpur, Rewaghat, NH31 near Chhapra 922 3223201 Uttar Pradesh, Bihar 140 km (87 mi) (NH30) NH22 near Patna, (NH84) Ara, Bhojpur, Buxar 23 3189804 Rajasthan 222 km (138 mi) (NH11A) Kothum, (NH11B) Lalsot, Karauli, Bari, Dhaulpur 24 3223253 Uttar Pradesh 293 km (182 mi) (NH29) Sonauli (border), Pharenda, Gorakhpur, (NH97) Ghazipur, Zamania, NH19 near Saiyad Raja 25 3189720 Rajasthan 353 km (219 mi) (NH112) Barmer, Kawas, Madhasar, Dhudhwa, Bagundi, Tilwara, Balotra, Pachpadra, Kalyanpur, Jodhpur, Kaparda, Bilara, Jaitaran, (NH14) Bar, Beawar 125 3189827 Rajasthan 168 km (104 mi) (NH114) Jodhpur, Balesar, Dechu, Pokaran 325 3836269 Rajasthan 135 km (84 mi) NH25 near Balotra, Siwana, Jalore, Ahore, Takhatgarh, NH14 near Sanderao 26 3223309 Odisha, Andhra Pradesh 526 km (327 mi) (NH201) NH53 near Bargarh, Barapali, Balangir, Bhawanipatna, (NH43) Boriguma, Koraput, Salur, Vizianagaram, NH16 near Natavalsa 27 3188931 Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam 3,507 km (2,179 mi) (NH112) Porbandar, (NH8A) Bamanbore, Morvi, (NH15) Samakhiali, (NH14) Radhanpur, Palanpur, (NH76) Pindwara, Udaipur, Mangarwar, Chittaurgarh, Kota, Baran, Shivpuri, Ganj, (NH25) Jhansi, (NH128) Kanpur, Lucknow, (NH28) Faizabad, Gorakhpur, Gopalganj, Pipra, Kothi, (NH57) Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Forbesganj, Araria, (NH31) Purnia, Dalkola, Islampur, (NH31D) Shiliguri, Jalaiguri, (NH31) Mainaguri, Dhupgar, Falakata, (NH31D) Sonapur, (NH31C) Salsaguri, (NH31) Bongaigaon, Bijni, Patacharkuchi, Nalbari, (NH37) Guwahati, Dishpur, (NH36) Nagaon, (NH54) Dobaka,Lumding, Haflong, Silchar 127 3224406 Assam 42 km (26 mi) (NH37) NH27 near Nagaon, Samaguri, NH715 near Jakhalabandha 127A 3281526 Assam 38 km (24 mi) (NH152) Pathsala - Bhutan border 227 3224496 Bihar 214 km (133 mi) (NH104) NH27 near Chakia, Narhar, Pakri Bridge, Madhuban, Shivhar, Sitamarhi, Harlakhi, Umgaon, Jaynagar, Laukaha, Laukahi, NH27 near Narahia 327 3224653 West Bengal 32 km (20 mi) (NH31C) NH27 near Bagdogra, Naksal Bari, Galgalia 527 3224706 Bihar 14 km (8.7 mi) (NH57A) NH27 near Forbesganj, Jogbani 527B 3224711 Bihar 54 km (34 mi) (NH105) NH27 near Darbhanga, Aunsi, NH227 near Jaynagar 527D 3224720 Bihar 69 km (43 mi) (NH28A) NH27 near Piprakothi, Sagauli, Raxaul, Nepal border 727 3224736 Uttar Pradesh, Bihar 169 km (105 mi) (NH28B) NH27 near Kushinagar, Chhitanuni Rail-cum-Road bridge, Bagaha, Lauriya, Bettiah, NH527D near Chhapwa 927 3224750 Uttar Pradesh 152 km (94 mi) (NH28C) NH27 near Barabanki, Baharaich, Nepalganj (border) 28 3225118 Uttar Pradesh 305 km (190 mi) (NH233) Nepal border, Naugarh, Sidarth Nagar, Bansi, Basti Tanda, (SH73) Azamgarh, NH31 near Varanasi 128 3225139 Uttar Pradesh 164 km (102 mi) (NH232) NH28 near Tanda Ambedkar Nagar, Sultanpur, Amethi, NH30 near Rae Bareli 29 3225538 Assam, Nagaland 320 km (200 mi) (NH36) NH27 near Dabaka (Sutargaon), Amlakhi, (NH39) Dimapur, (NH150) Kohima Chizam, NH202 near Jessami 129 3225875 Assam, Nagaland 105 km (65 mi) (NH39) NH29 near Dimapur, Bokajan, Golaghat, NH715 near Numaligarh 30 3225905 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh 2,010 km (1,250 mi) (NH74) NH9 near Sitarganj, Pilibhit, (NH24) Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur, (NH24B) Lucknow, (NH231) Raebareli, (NH96) Pratapgarh, (NH27) Allahabad, Mangawan, (NH7) Rewa, Katni, (NH12A) Jabalpur, Mandla, Chilpi, (NH200) Simga, (NH43) Raipur, Dhamtari, Keskal, (NH221) Jagdalpur, Konta, Nellipaka, Bhadrachalam, Paloncha, Kottagudam, Tiravuru, Mailavaram, NH65 near Kondapalle 130 3226218 Chhattisgarh 291 km (181 mi) (NH200) NH30 near Simga, (NH111) Bilaspur, Kathgora, NH43 near Ambikapur 230 3266623 Uttar Pradesh 17 km (11 mi) (NH24A) NH30 near Bakshi-ka-Talab, Chenhat, junction with NH27 / NH731 / NH30 / NH27, NH30 near Bakshi-ka-Talab 330 3226243 Uttar Pradesh 103 km (64 mi) (NH96) NH30 near Allahabad, Pratapgarh, Sultanpur, NH27 near Faizabad 530 3226393 Uttar Pradesh 66 km (41 mi) (NH24) NH30 near Bareily, NH9 near Rampur 31 3226439 Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal 968 km (601 mi) (NH232A) NH27 near Unnao, (NH232) Lalganj, (NH231) Raebareli, Salon, Pratapgarh, Machhlishahr, (NH56) Jaunpur, (NH29) Varanasi, (NH19) Ghazipur, Ballia, Chhapra, (NH30) Hajipur, (NH31) Bakhtiyarpur, Mokama, Begusarai, Khagari, Bihpur, Kora, Katihar, Harishchanderpur, NH12 near Pandua 131 3259618 Bihar 132 km (82 mi) (NH106) NH31 near Bihpur, Kishanganj, Madhepura, Birpur (border) 231 3226776 Bihar 196 km (122 mi) (NH107) NH31 near Maheshkund, Sonbarsa Raj, Simri Bakhtiyarpur, Saharsa, Madhepura, Sarsi, (NH31) Purnia, NH31 near Kora 331 3227144 Bihar 65 km (40 mi) (NH101) NH31 near Chhapra, Baniapur, NH27 near Muhumadpur 431 3227188 Bihar 70 km (43 mi) (NH30A) NH31 near Phatuha, Chandi, Harnaut, NH31 near Barh 531 3227193 Bihar 93 km (58 mi) (NH85) NH31 near Chhapra, Siwan, NH27 near Gopalganj 731 3227200 Uttar Pradesh 221 km (137 mi) (NH56) NH31 near Jaunpur, Sultanpur, NH27 near Lucknow 32 3227344 Tamil Nadu, Puducherry 314 km (195 mi) (NH45) NH48 near Chennai, Chengalpattu, (NH66) Tindivanam, (NH45A) Puducherry, Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Karaikal, (Puducherry), NH83 near Nagapatinam 132 3227797 Tamil Nadu 37 km (23 mi) (NH45) NH32 near Tindivanam, NH38 near Viluppuram 332 3227811 Tamil Nadu, Puducherry 38 km (24 mi) (NH45A) NH32 near Puducherry, NH38 near Viluppuram 532 3227811 Tamil Nadu 124 km (77 mi) (NH45A) NH32 near Cuddalore, Vadalur, Neyveli, Virudachalam, NH38 Veppur, NH79 near Chinasalem 33 3228059 Bihar, West Bengal 443 km (275 mi) (NH110) NH139 near Arwal, Jahanabad, Bandhuganj, Ekangarsarai, (NH82) Biharsharif, (NH80) Mokama, Luckeesarai, Munger, Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon, Sahibganj, Rajmahal, Barharwa, NH12 near Farakka 133 Jharkhand 200 km (120 mi) Pirpainti, Godda, Deoghar 34 3228564 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh 1,426 km (886 mi) (NH108) Gangotri Dham, Bhatwari, Uttarkashi, (NH94) Dharasu, nearTerhi, Ampata, (NH58) Rishikesh, (NH74) Haridwar, (NH119) Najibabad, Bijnore, (NH58) Meerut, (NH91) Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Etah, Kannauj, (NH86) Kanpur, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Chattarpur, (NH12A) Hirapur, Damoh, (NH7) Jabalpur, NH44 near Lakhnadon 134 3228717 Uttarakhand 94 km (58 mi) (NH94) NH34 near Dharasu, Kuthnaur, Yamnotri 234 3229153 Uttar Pradesh 156 km (97 mi) (NH91A) NH34 near Kannauj, Bela, (NH92) Etawah, Kishni, NH34 near Bhongaon 334 3228724 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh 207 km (129 mi) (NH58) NH34 near Haridwar, Roorkee, Muzaffarnagar, (NH235) Meerut, Hapur, NH34 near Bulandshar 534 3228946 Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh 151 km (94 mi) (NH119) NH34 near Najibabad, Kotdwar, Satpauli, Bubakhal 734 3228969 Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand 108 km (67 mi) (NH74) NH34 near Najibabad, Nagina, NH309 near Kashipur 934 3229083 Madhya Pradesh 156 km (97 mi) (NH86) NH34 near Hirapur, Banda, (NH26A) Sagar, Jeruwakhera, Khurai, Bina 35 3229508 Uttar Pradesh 346 km (215 mi) (NH76) NH34 near KaBrai, Banda, Karwi, Mau, Allahabad, (NH7) Mirzapur, NH19 near Varanasi 135 3229736 Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh 130 km (81 mi) (NH7) NH35 near Mirzapur, Lalganj, Drummondganj, Mauganj, NH30 near Mangawan 335 3229784 Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh 110 km (68 mi) (NH232) NH35 near Banda, Fathepur, NH31 near Lalganj 36 3229793 Tamil Nadu 334 km (208 mi) (NH45C) NH132 near Vikravandi, Panruti Vadulur, Neyveli-Township, Sethiathop, Kumbakonam, (NH226) Thanjavur, Gandarvakottai, (NH210) Pudukottai, (NH226) Tirumayam, Kilasevalpatti, Tirupattur, Madagupatti, Shivganga, NH87 near Manamadurai 136 3230497 Tamil Nadu 68 km (42 mi) (NH226) NH36 near Thanjavur, Thiruvaiyaru, Kunnam, Perali, NH38 near Perambalur 336 3230541 Tamil Nadu 52 km (32 mi) (NH210) NH36 near Pudukkottai, Kiranur, NH83 near Tiruchirappalli 536 3230701 Tamil Nadu 109 km (68 mi) (NH210) NH36 near Tirumayam, Devakottai, Tiruvadanai, NH87 near Ramanathapuram 37 3230787 Assam, Manipur 313 km (194 mi) (NH53) NH2 near Imphal, Jiribam, Jirighat, Lakhipur, Silchar, (NH44) Badarpur, Karimganj, border 38 3231116 Tamil Nadu 604 km (375 mi) (NH234) NH75 near Vellore, Polur, Tiruvannamalai, (NH45) Viluppuram, Ulundurpettai, Perambalur, (NH45B) Tiruchchirappali, Tovarankurichchi, Melur, Madurai, Aruppukkottai, NH138 near Tuticorin Port 138 3231953 Tamil Nadu 54 km (34 mi) (NH7A) NH38 near Tuticorin Port, NH44 near Palayankottai 39 3233217 Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand 869 km (540 mi) (NH75) NH44 near Jhansi, Chhatarpur, Khajuraho, Panna, Satna, Rewa, Sidhi, {singrauli}, Dudhinagar, Garhwa, Daltenganj, Latehar, Chandwa, NH20 near Ranchi 139 3234465 Bihar, Jharkhand 236 km (147 mi) (NH98) NH39 near Rajhara, Chhatarpur, Hariharganj, Aurangabad, Daudnagar, Arwal, Naubatpur, NH31 near Patna 339 3290989 Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh 34 km (21 mi) NH39 near Nowgong, NH34 near Srinagar 539 3234483 Madhya Pradesh 173 km (107 mi) (NH12A) NH39 near Jhansi, Pirthipur, Tikamgarh, NH934 near Shahgarh 40 3234491 Andhra Pradesh 420 km (260 mi) (NH18) NH44 near Kurnool, Nandyal, Cuddapah, Pileru, Putalapattu, Chittoor, NH48 near Ranipettai 140 3234929 Andhra Pradesh 0 km (0 mi) NH40 near Putalpattu, NH71 near Tirupati 41 3234951 Gujarat 290 km (180 mi) (NH8A) NH41 near Samakhiyali, Gandhi Dham, Mandvi, Naliya, Narayan Sarovar 141 3234961 Gujarat 31 km (19 mi) (NH8A) NH41 near Gandhi Dam, Kandla Port 42 3234973 Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu 337 km (209 mi) (NH205) NH44 near Anantapur, Kadiri, (NH219) Madanapalli, Kuppam, NH44 near Krishnagiri 43 3235103 Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand 806 km (501 mi) (NH78) NH30 near Katni, Umaria, Shahdol, Nagar, Ambikapur, Pathalgaon, Jashpurnagar, Chhattisgarh, (NH23) Gumla, (NH33) Ranchi, NH18 near Chandil 143 3235599 Jharkhand, Odisha 247 km (153 mi) (NH23) NH43 near Gumla, Palkot, Kolebira, Thethaitanagar, Jharkhand, Panposh, Rajamundra, NH49 near Barakot 44 3189954 Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 3,745 km (2,327 mi) (NH1A) Srinagar, Jammu, Pathankot, (NH1) Jalandar, Ludhiana, Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, (NH2) Delhi, Faridabad, Mathura, (NH3) Agra, (NH75) Gwalior, (NH26) Jhansi, (NH7) Lakhnadon, Nagpur, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Hyderabad, Kurnool, Bengaluru, Salem, Madurai, Kanyakumari 244 3239209 Jammu and Kashmir 246 km (153 mi) (NH1B) NH44 near Khanabal, Symthanpass, Kishtwar, Doda, NH44 near Batote 144 3239340 Jammu and Kashmir 15 km (9.3 mi) (NH1C) NH44 near Domel, Katra 344 3239360 Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand 173 km (107 mi) (NH72) NH44 near Ambala, (NH73) Dhanana, Saha, Yamunanagar, Saharanpur, NH334 near Roorkee 544 3239550 Kerala, Tamil Nadu 332 km (206 mi) (NH47) NH44 near Salem, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrissur, NH66 near Ernakulum 744 3239789 Kerala, Tamil Nadu 232 km (144 mi) (NH208) NH44 near Tirumangalum, Srivilliputtur, Rajapalaiyam, Tenkasi, Puliyur, Punalur, Kottarakara, Kundara, Kadappakada, NH66 Chinnakada near Kollam 944 3240283 Tamil Nadu 23 km (14 mi) (NH47B) NH44 near Kavalkinaru, Aralvaymozhi, NH66 near Nagerkoil 45 3248199 Madhya Pradesh 280 km (170 mi) (NH12) NH46 near Obaidullaganj, Bareli, Tendukheda, NH30 near Jabalpur 46 3248209 Madhya Pradesh 604 km (375 mi) (NH3) NH44 near Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, (NH12) Biora, Bhopal, (NH69) Obeddullaganj, Hoshangabad, NH47 near Betul 146 3248220 Madhya Pradesh 188 km (117 mi) (NH86) NH46 near Bhopal, Vidisha, NH44 near Sagar 47 3248235 Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra 1,080 km (670 mi) (NH8A) NH27 near Bamanbore, Limbdi, (NH59) Ahmedabad, Godhra, Dahod, (NH59A) Indore, (NH69) Betul, Saoner, NH44 near Nagpur 147 3248297 Gujarat 50 km (31 mi) (NH8C) NH47 near Sakhej, Gandhinagar, NH48 near Chilloda 48 3188469 Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 2,807 km (1,744 mi) (NH8) Delhi, Bawal, Kotpuli, Jaipur, (NH79A) Kishangarh, (NH79) Nasirabad, (NH76) Chittorgarh, (NH8) Udaipur, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ankleshwar, (NH3) Mumbai, (NH4) Thane, Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Belgam, Chitradurga, (NH7) Bengaluru, (NH46) Krishnagiri, (NH4) Vellore, Chennai 148 3189844 Rajasthan 105 km (65 mi) (NH11A) NH48 near Manoharpur, Dausa, NH23 near Lalsot 248 3240893 Rajasthan 53 km (33 mi) (NH11C) old NH8 through Jaipur from km220 to km 273.50 348 3240902 Maharashtra 28 km (17 mi) (NH4B) NH48 near Palspe, Jawaharlal Nehru Port 448 3240909 Rajasthan 57 km (35 mi) (NH8) NH48 near Kishangarh, (NH79) Ajmer, NH48 near Nasirabad 548 3240924 Maharashtra 5 km (3.1 mi) NH66 near Kalamboi, NH348 at km 16.687 648 3240937 Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 143 km (89 mi) (NH207) NH48 near Nelamangla, Dodaballapur, Devenhalli (NH44), Sarajpur, Bagalur, NH48 near Hosur 748 3240977 Karnataka, Goa 160 km (99 mi) (NH4A) NH48 near Belgaum, Anmod, Ponda, NH66 near Panaji 948 3241154 Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 317 km (197 mi) (NH209) NH48 near Bengaluru, Kanakapura, Malvalli, Kollagal, Chamarajnagar, NH544 near Coimbatore 49 3241993 Chhattishgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal 706 km (439 mi) (NH200) NH130 near Bilaspur, Pamgarh, Raigarh, Kanaktora, Jharsuguda, Kuchinda, Pravasuni, (NH6) Deogarh, Barakot, Palalaharba, KenduJhargarh, Bangriposchi, Baharagora, NH16 near Kharagpur 149 3287546 Odisha (NH23) NH49 near Palalaharha, Talcher, NH55 near Nuahata 50 3242033 Karnataka 544 km (338 mi) (NH218) NH65 near Homanabad, Gulbarga, Jevargi, (NH13) Bijapur, Hospet, NH48 near Lakshraisagara 150 3461026 Karnataka 137 km (85 mi) NH50 near Gulbarga, Yadagiri, NH167 near Devasuguru 150A 3790917 Karnataka 618 km (384 mi) N50 near Jewargi, Siruguppa, Bellary, Hiriyur, Chikkanayakanahalli, Nagamangala, Srirangapatna, Mysore, Nanjangud, NH-948 near Chamarajnagar 150E 3790976 Karnataka, Maharashtra 105 km (65 mi) NH-50 near Gulbarga,Chowdapur, Afzalpur, NH-52 near Solapur 51 3242613 Gujarat 522 km (324 mi) (NH8E) Dwarka, Bhogat, Porbandar, Navibander, Shil, Mangrol, Somnath, Kodinar, Una, Mahuva, Talaja, Bhavnagar 151 3242849 Gujarat 99 km (62 mi) (NH8D) NH51 near Gadu, Vanthali Junagadh, NH27 near Jetpur 52 3188321 Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka 2,317 km (1,440 mi) (NH71) Sangrur, (NH65) Narwana, Hisar, (NH11) Fatehpur, (NH12) Jaipur, Tonk, Kota, Aklera, Rajgarh, (NH3) Biora, Dewas, Indore, Sendhwa, (NH211) Dhule, Aurangabad, Beed, Osmanabad, (NH13) Solapur, (NH218) Bijapur, (NH63) Hubli, Ankola 152 3244074 Haryana 155 km (96 mi) (NH65) NH52 near Narwana, Kaithal, (NH22) Ambala, NH7 near Panchkula 352 3244097 Haryana 218 km (135 mi) (NH71) NH52 near Narwana, Jind, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari, NH48 near Bawal 552 3189847 Rajasthan 75 km (47 mi) (NH116) NH52 near Tonk, Uniara, Sawai Madhopur 752 3189852 Rajasthan 92 km (57 mi) (NH90) Aklera, Atru, Baran 53 3245213 Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha 1,781 km (1,107 mi) (NH6) Hajira, Surat, Uchchhal, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati, Nagpur, Bhandara, Deori, Rajnandgaon, Durg, Raipur, Arang, Saraipali, Bargarh, Sambalpur, (NH200) Deograh, Dubri, Chandhikhol, (NH5A) Haridaspur, Paradip Port 153 3246845 Chhattisgarh 39 km (24 mi) (NH216) NH53 near Saraipali, NH49 near Sarangarh 353 3246854 Chhattisgarh, Odisha 146 km (91 mi) (NH217) NH53 near Ghorai, Mahasamund, Bagbahra, Nauparha, NH59 near Khariar 54 3209621 Punjab 340 km (210 mi) (NH15) Panthankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Zira, Faridkot, (NH64) Bathinda, Bikaner, Sikar, near NH8 Jaipur 154 3209668 Punjab, Himachal Pradesh 279 km (173 mi) (NH20) NH54 near Pathankot, Nurpur, Palampur, Jogindarnagar, (NH21) Mandi, Sundar Nagar, Ghaghas, Bilaspur, NH205 near Nauni 55 3247298 Odisha 264 km (164 mi) (NH42) NH53 near Sambalpur, Redhakhol, Angul, Nuahata, Dhenkanal, NH16 near Cuttack 56 3247318 Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat 290 km (180 mi) (NH79) NH27 near Chittaurgarh, (NH113) Nimbahera, Pratapgarh, Banswara, Jhalod, Umbi, NH47 near Dahod 156 3247350 Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh 10 km (6.2 mi) (NH79) NH56 near Nimbahera, Border to MP 57 3247355 Odisha 297 km (185 mi) (NH224) NH26 near Balangir, Sonapur, Bauda, Dashapalla, Nayagarh, NH16 near Khordha 58 3189779 Rajasthan 620 km (390 mi) (NH65) Fatehpur,Ladnun, (NH89) Nagaur, Merta City, (NH8) Ajmer, Bayawar, Devgarh, Udaipur 59 3247434 Odisha 352 km (219 mi) (NH217) NH353 near Khariar, Titlagrah, Lankagarh, Baligurha, Surada, Asika, NH16 near Brahmapur 60 3247531 Maharashtra 395 km (245 mi) (NH3) NH53 near Dhule, (NH50) Nashik, Sangammer, Ale, NH48 near Pune 160 3248693 Maharashtra 149 km (93 mi) (NH3) NH60 near Nasik, NH48 near Thane 61 3248429 Maharashtra, Telangana 652 km (405 mi) (NH222) NH160 near Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Murbad, Ale, Ahmadnagar, Tisgaon, Pathardi, Yeli, Kharwandi, Padalshingi, Majalgaon, Parbhani, Nanded, Bhokar, NH44 near Nirmal 62 3188295 Punjab, Rajasthan 748 km (465 mi) (NH15) Abohar, Ganganagar, Suratgarh, Lunkaransar, (NH89) Bikaner, (NH65) Nagaur, Jodhpur, (NH14) Pali, Sirohi, Pindwara 162 3189874 Rajasthan 89 km (55 mi) (NH14) Pali, Bar 63 3249230 Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha 560 km (350 mi) (NH16) Nizamabad, Armoor, Metpally, Korutla, Jagtiyal, Mancherial, Bijapur, Jagdalpur 163 3249370 Telangana, Chhattisgarh 344 km (214 mi) (NH202) NH63 near Bhopalpatnam, Venkatapuram, Warangal, NH44 near Hyderabad 64 3250238 Gujarat 332 km (206 mi) (NH8) NH48 near Ahmedabad, (NH228) Anand, Dandi 65 3250367 Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh 926 km (575 mi) (NH9) NH48 near Pune, Indapur, Solapur, Umarga, Homnabad, Hyderabad,Suryapet,Vijayawada, Vuyyuru, Pamarru, NH216 near Machilipatnam 165 3251439 Andhra Pradesh 107 km (66 mi) (NH214) NH65 near Pamarru, Mandavalli, Pallevada, Digamarru, NH216 near Narsapur 66 3251490 Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu 1,593 km (990 mi) (NH17) NH48 near Panvel, Indapur, Mahad, Rajapur, Kudal, Panaji, Margao, Karwar, Honavar, Udupi, Mangalore, Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Ponnani, Guruvayoor, Edappalli, (NH47) Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram, NH44 near Kanyakumari 166 3251991 Maharashtra 149 km (93 mi) (NH204) Ratnagiri, Tink, Pali, NH48 near Kolhapur 366 3252270 Goa 10 km (6.2 mi) (NH17A) NH66 near Cortalim, Vasco, Monnugao Port 566 3252296 Goa 12.2 km (7.6 mi) (NH17B) NH748 near Ponda, Verna, NH366 near Vasco 766 3252308 Kerala, Karnataka 268 km (167 mi) (NH212) NH66 near Kozikode, Kalpetta, Gundlulpet, Mysore, NH948 near Kollegal 966 3252912 Kerala 122 km (76 mi) (NH213) NH66 near Ferokh, NH544 near Palakkad 966A 3252940 Kerala 15 km (9.3 mi) (NH47C) NH544 near Kalamassery, NH66, Vallarpadam, Ernakulam 966B 3464512 Kerala 8 km (5.0 mi) (NH47A) NH66, Willington Island near Kochi, Ernakulam 67 3253003 Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh 300 km (190 mi) (NH63) NH48 near Hubli, Gadag, Koppal, Hosepet, Bellary, NH44 near Gooty 167 3461042 Karnataka, Telangana 264 km (164 mi) NH67 near Bellary, Raichur, Makhtal, NH44 near Badepalli 367 3791072 Karnataka 157 km (98 mi) NH67 near Bhanapur, Kukunur, Yelburga, Gajendragad, Badami, Guledagudda, Bagalkot,NH52 near Gadankeri 68 3188307 Rajasthan, Gujarat 429 km (267 mi) (NH15) Jaisalmer, Barmer, Sanchor, Tharad, Bhabhar, Radhanpur 69 3253743 Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh 625 km (388 mi) (NH206) NH66 near Honnavar, Shimoga, (NH234) Banavar, Hulyar, Sira, Madhugiri, Chintamani, (NH4) Mulbagal, Palmaner, NH40 near Chittor 169 3254973 Karnataka 215 km (134 mi) (NH13) NH69 near Shimoga, Tirthahalli, Koppa, Karkal, NH66 near Mangalore 169A 3791187 Karnataka 87 km (54 mi) NH-169 near Thirthahalli, Agumbe, Hebri,NH-66 near Udupi 369 3255290 Karnataka 105 km (65 mi) (NH13) NH69 near Shimoga, Channagiri, Holalkere, NH48 near Chitradurga 71 3255313 Andhra Pradesh 108 km (67 mi) (NH205) NH42 near Madanpalle, Pileru-Tirupati, NH716 near Renigunta 73 3255381 Karnataka 316 km (196 mi) (NH234) NH66 near Mangaluru, (NH206) Banavara, Arsikere, NH48 near Tumkur 173 3791221 Karnataka 72 km (45 mi) NH73 near Mudigere, Chikmagalur, NH69 near Kadur 75 3255606 Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 533 km (331 mi) (NH48) NH73 near Bantval, Hassan, (NH4) Nelamangala, Bengaluru, Kolar, (NH234) Mulbagal, Venkatagirikota, Pernampet, Gudiyattam, Katpadi, NH48 near Vellore 275 3791268 Karnataka 367 km (228 mi) NH-75 near Bantwal, Puttur, Sullia, Madikeri, Kushalanagar, Bylakuppe, Hunsur, Mysore, Srirangapatna, Mandya, Ramanagaram, NH75 near Bengaluru (Bangalore) 77 3255919 Tamil Nadu 177 km (110 mi) (NH66) NH48 near Krishnagiri, Uttangarai, Tiruvannamalai, Gingee, NH32 near Tindivanam 79 3256003 Tamil Nadu 137 km (85 mi) (NH68) NH44 near Salem, Attur, NH38 near Ulundurpettai 81 3256061 Tamil Nadu 340 km (210 mi) (NH67) NH544 near Coimbatore, Palladam, Karur, Krishnarayapuram, (NH227) Tiruchirappalli, Lalgudi, Kallakudi, Kizhapalur, Udaiyarpalaiyam, Jayamkondacholapuram, Gangaikondacholapuram, Kattumannarkoil, Komarakshi, NH32 near Chidambaram 181 3256768 Karnataka, Tamil Nadu 211 km (131 mi) (NH67) NH81 near Coimbatore, Mettuppalayam, Udagamandalam (ooty), Gudalur, NH766 near Gundulpet 83 3256907 Tamil Nadu 394 km (245 mi) (NH209) NH544 near Coimbatore, Pollachi, (NH45) Dindigul (NH67) Tiruchchirappali, Thanjavur, NH32 near Nagappattinam 183 3257198 Kerala, Tamil Nadu 322 km (200 mi) (NH45) NH83 near Dindigul, (NH220) Teni, Uttamapalayam, Cumbum, Kumily, Peermedu, Mundakkayam, Kanjirappali, Kodungoor, Kottayam, Changanassery, Chengannur, NH744 near Kundara, Anchalumoodu, Thevally, NH66 near Kollam 85 3257242 Kerala, Tamil Nadu 413 km (257 mi) (NH49) NH66 near Kochi, Ernakulam, Moovttupuzha, Kothamangalam,Neriamangalam,Adimali, Munnar, Devikulam, Bodi, Theni, Madurai, (NH230) Tiruppuvanam, Sivaganga, Tondi point 87 3257823 Tamil Nadu 154 km (96 mi) (NH49) NH38 near Tiruppuvanam, Manamadurai, Ramanathapuram, Rameswaram, Dhanushkodi"
A dual carriageway section of National Highway 8 connecting Delhi to Gurgaon
Durgapur Expressway near Kolkata
"The national highways network of India is a network of highways that is managed and maintained by agencies of the Government of India. These highways measured over 100,087 km (62,191 mi) as of June 2016, including over 1,000 km (620 mi) of limited-access expressways (motorways). Out of 1,00,087 km of national highways 26,200 plus km are at least 4 laned with the remaining 50,000 km 2 laned.[1][2] Indian government has set itself a target of construct and upgrade 30 km of highway per day (11,000 km per year) from 2017 and all new construction will be using cement concrete instead of bitumen."
"In India, National Highways are at-grade roads whereas Express Highways, commonly known as Expressways, are controlled-access highways, mostly 6-lane or above, where entrance and exit is controlled by the use of slip roads (ramps) that are incorporated into the design of the highway. The highways do not have shoulder lanes. The speed on highway is mostly unregulated and is mostly slowed by heavy trucks in middle lanes. The highways are also used by pedestrians and cyclists creating dangerous situations."
"The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is the nodal agency responsible for building, upgrading and maintaining most of the national highways network. It operates under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The National Highways Development Project (NHDP) is a major effort to expand and upgrade the network of highways. NHAI often uses a public-private partnership model for highway development, maintenance and toll-collection."
"While national highways constitute 1.7% of Indian roads, they carry 40% of the traffic.[3] The majority of existing national highways are two-lane roads (one lane in each direction), though much of this is being expanded to four-lanes, and some to six or more lanes. Some sections of the network are toll roads. Over 30,000 km (19,000 mi) of new highways are planned or under construction as part of the NHDP, as of 2011. This includes over 2,600 km (1,600 mi) of expressways currently under construction."
Current system
The network of national highways in India
"India has the distinction of having the world's second highest-altitude motor highway— Leh-Manali Highway, connecting Shimla to Leh in Ladakh, Kashmir.[citation needed]"
Map showing highway distribution with population density
"National highways form the economic backbone of the country and have often facilitated development along their routes, and many new towns have sprung up along major highways. Highways also have large numbers of small restaurants and inns (known as dhabas) along their length. They serve popular local cuisine and serve as truck stops."
"Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India adopted a new systematic numbering of national highways in April 2010. The new system will indicate the direction of national highways whether it is east-west (odd numbers) or north-south (even numbers) and also the geographical region where they are located, increasing from east to west and from north to south.[6]"
Recent developments
NH44 section between Bangalore and Karnataka - Andhra Pradesh border. It is part of the North South Corridor.
Indian road network
"Indian road network[14] Class Length (km) Expressways 1,000 km (620 mi) Total national highways 100,087.00 km (62,191.18 mi) State highways 154,522 km (96,016 mi) Major and other district roads 2,577,396 km (1,601,520 mi) Rural & other roads 1,433,577 km (890,783 mi) Total (approx) 4,245,429 km (2,637,987 mi)"
References and notes
"This is a list of National Highways of India, prior to their renumbering in 2010–11. See List of National Highways in India by highway number for the list of current highway numbers."
Current status
"Govt. of India declares ""Golden Quadrilateral"" complete - Jan 7th 2012"
NHAI - Current status
Length in each state
The completed Golden Quadrilateral passes through 13 states:
"The Golden Quadrilateral is a highway network connecting many of the major industrial, agricultural and cultural centres of India. A quadrilateral of sorts is formed by connecting Chennai, Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai, and hence its name. Other metropolises also connected by the network are Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Kanpur, Pune, Surat, Nellore, Guntur, Vijayawada, and Visakhapatnam."
"The largest highway project in India and the fifth longest in the world, started by NDA Government led by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee[1] it is the first phase of the National Highways Development Project (NHDP), and consists of building 5,846 km (3,633 mi) four/six lane express highways at a cost of ₹600 billion (US$8.9 billion).[2] The project was launched in 2001 by Atal Bihari Vajpayee under the NDA government, and was completed in 2012.[3]"
History and costs
Then-Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee laid the foundation stone for the project on 6 January 1999.[4]
"In January 2012, India announced the four-lane GQ highway network as complete.[5][6]"
"India's government had initially estimated that the Golden Quadrilateral project would cost ₹600 billion (US$8.9 billion) at 1999 prices. However, the highway has been built under-budget. As of August 2011, cost incurred by Indian government was about half of initial estimate, at ₹308.58 billion (US$4.6 billion). The eight contracts in progress, as of August 2011, were worth ₹16.34 billion (US$240 million).[7]"
"In September 2009, it was announced that the existing four-laned highways would be converted into six-lane highways.[8] The expansion project was reported at various stages to be behind schedule, mainly due to land acquisition constraints and disputes with contractors which had to be re-negotiated.[9][10]"
Economic benefits
The projected economic benefits of the GQ project are -
Route
Only National Highways are used in the Golden Quadrilateral. The four legs use the following National Highways:
Important cities connected by Golden Quadrilateral highway
Section of NH48 between Delhi and Jaipur
"National Highway 8 (NH 8) is a 4-lane (6-lane between Delhi-Jaipur) National Highway in India. According to estimates, it is the busiest highway in the subcontinent, as it connects the national capital Delhi to the financial capital Mumbai, as well as important cities Gurgaon, Jaipur, Ajmer, Udaipur, Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat. The total length is 1428km.[1]"
"The highway is part of the Golden Quadrilateral project undertaken by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and was the first section to be completed. The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway , Jaipur-Kishangarh Expressway , and NE-1 are part of NH 8. Before entering downtown Mumbai, NH 8 passes through nearly all the suburbs on the western line of Mumbai Suburban Railway, where it is popularly known as Western Express Highway."
Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project
"This Indo-Japanese multi-billion Corridor lies on National Highway-8. Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Limited (DMICDC), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) floated by the government of India for implementing the DMIC projects, had appointed the consultant for undertaking a study on the master plan for the Manesar-Bawal Investment Region (MBIR) and undertaking pre-feasibility studies for two early bird projects. The Haryana government had identified four Early Bird Projects to be implemented as a pilot initiative within the DMIC region, which includes Mass Rapid Transportation System between Gurgaon-Manesar-Bawal, exhibition-cum-convention centre, integrated multi-modal logistics hub and new passenger rail link.[2] The first phase was completed by 2012 with an estimated $90 billion ( Rs 4,23,000 crore) to invested developing infrastructure in the investment regions.[3]"
"National Highway 73 (NH 73) is a National Highway in India. This highway runs in the Indian state of Karnataka. It starts near Mangaluru and ends at Tumkuru, near NH 48."
National Highway 37 (NH 37) is a National Highway in India. This highway starts from Dalkola in Assam and terminates at Bhali in Manipur.[1]
"National Highway 33 (NH 33) is a National Highway in India. It runs from Farakka to Arwal. It encounters many cities in its way such as New Delhi, Gwalior, Dholpur and Agra in its way. It is a very important highway linking the Northeast to Northwest. It is also a part of the legendary Asian Highway 43 AH43 which runs from Agra to Matara, Sri Lanka.[1]"
National Highway 55 (NH 55) is a National Highway in India connecting Sambalpur and Cuttak in indian state of Odisha.[1]
"National Highway 67 (NH 67), (previously National Highway 63), is a major National Highway in India.[1] It starts at the junction of NH 48 near Hubli of Karnataka and ends at Krishnapatnam Port road in Andhra Pradesh.[2][3]"
"NH-63 passes through the cities of Hubli, Gadag, Koppal, Hospet, Bellary in Karnataka and Guntakal,Gooty, Tadipatri, Muddanuru, Mydukur, Nellore, Krishnapatnam Port road of Andhra Pradesh.[3]"
Andhra Pradesh – 395.89 km (245.99 mi)[2]
"National Highway 7 (NH 7) is a highway connecting Fazilka to Mana in India.[1] It passes through the Indian states of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. The NH-7 ( Old NH-58 ) connects Hindu piligrim centres of Rishikesh, Devprayag, Rudraprayag, Karnaprayag, Chamoli,Joshimath and Badrinath with Dehradun and Chandigarh. Piligrims travelling to Sri Hemkuntsahib take a diversion from Govindghat which lies on NH-7 in between Joshimath and Badrinath.The road is generally closed during winter months of December, January, February and March in the upper reaches of Himalaya's through which National Highway 7 paases. This road goes to Mana Pass near India Tibetian border."
Frigates
"This is a list of ships of the Indian Navy. It covers both the pre-independence Royal Indian Navy[1] and the post-independence Indian Navy. This article is incomplete, editors are welcome to contribute to expanding this list."
Corvette
Minesweepers
Fast Attack Craft
Current ships
Historical ships
"Note: Prior to 1950, Indian naval ships carried the prefix HMIS (""His Majesty's Indian Ship"") as the Indian Armed Forces were under the British Crown. After the declaration of the Republic of India on 26 January 1950, the prefix became INS (""Indian Naval Ship"")."
Aircraft carriers
Submarines
Cruisers
Destroyers
Chittaranjan Locomotive Works ( Bengali: চিত্তরঞ্জন লোকোমোটিভ ওয়ার্কস ) is a state-owned electric locomotive manufacturer based in India. It is located at Chittaranjan in Asansol. It is one of the largest locomotive manufacturers in the world.
"WAP5 made at CLW, Chittaranjan"
Overview
Founded in 1950 the Indian Railway owned industrial unit is named after the Indian freedom-fighter Chittaranjan Das. The manufacturing unit was established at a place close to the Chittaranjan railway station.
"The factory commenced the production of steam locomotives on the 26 January 1950 (the date when India formally declared itself a Republic), in collaboration with the North British Locomotive Company. On November 1, 1950 Indian President Dr. Rajendra Prasad formally dedicated the first steam rail-engine produced by the company (a WG class locomotive bearing the registration number 8401) to the freedom fighter Deshbandhu Chittranjan Das. The name of the nearby railway station Mihijam was also changed to Chittaranjan. Many of the specialized machinery required for steam locomotive manufacture was obtained from the Vulcan Foundry in England, previously a major supplier of locomotives to India, which at this time was moving from building steam locomotives to diesel.[1]"
Post-1968 the factory began to manufacture diesel-hydraulic locomotives. The production of steam and diesel locomotives were discontinued in 1973 and 1994 respectively. The company has since been manufacturing only electric rail-engines. It is now the only government electric loco producing factory in India.
"The factory obtains its iron & steel from IISCO Steel Plant, Asansol and Tata Steel, Jamshedpur and hydel power from Maithon Dam. The township under CLW is bordered by high boundaries and 3 main gates, and guarded by Railway Protection Force (RPF), Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) and also West Bengal police."
CLW 60years painting on WAP7
Products
Locomotives
Traction Motors
Chittaranjan Locomotive Works
"Xavier University (XUB) is a Jesuit, Catholic university located in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. It was authorized by the Odisha Legislative Assembly in 2013.[1] Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar, established by the Jesuits in 1987, is now affiliated to the University. The Jesuits have about 50 colleges and educational institutes in India but this is the first university they have founded in the country."
"With support from Hewlett Packard and IBM, XUB sees itself as the first full-digitized university in India.[2]"
Mission
"Taking its inspiration from Saint Francis Xavier, a world-travelled missionary, XUB strives to be of service to the people of Odisha and to become a globally recognized center of learning. It is research-oriented, seeking to generate knowledge and diffuse it to create a more just society, for the benefit of all.[3] Fifty percent of the seats are reserved for Odisha students, with a preference shown to the disadvantaged.[4][5]"
Academics
"By 2016, XUB had Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar (XIMB), schools of Human Resource Management, Rural Management, Sustainability, Communications, and Commerce. Eleven Masters and two PhDs are offered, along with post-graduate degrees in Film & TV and Broadcast Journalism.[6]"
"XUB publishes three peer-reviewed, bi-annual, international journals:"
"International Journal of Development and Social Research (IJDSR); Vilakshan; Journal of Case Research (JCR), published online."
"Sainik School, Bhubaneswar is one of the 24 Sainik Schools in India. It is a purely residential school for boys. The medium of instruction is English. Established by Government of India on 1 February 1962 at Bhubaneswar, the Capital City of Odisha. It is affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education and is a member of Indian Public Schools Conference (IPSC)."
"The school prepares boys for entry into the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune and for other walks of life."
Sainik School Bhubaneswar was started by Late Shri Biju Patnaik the then Chief Minister of Orissa on 15 Jan 1962 in an adhoc government accommodation. The new building and infrastructure was brought up within two years at the present location under personal care of Shri Biju Patnaik and was inaugurated by Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru on 08 Jan 1964.
"Sainik School Bhubaneswar is located in the Capital City of Orissa in the close vicinity of Utkal University, Vani Vihar just 2 km away from National Highway. The distance of the school from Air Port is about 10 km and from Railway Station it is only 8 km."
"The primary objective of Sainik School is to prepare boys academically, physically and mentally for entry into the National Defense Academy and to attain the high physical, mental and intellectual levels needed for induction into the Officer Cadre. The school has a three tier system of management, consisting of VIX Sainik Schools Society with the Ministry of Defence as its apex body, Local Board of Administration and the School staff. The school staff consists of a principal, Headmaster Registrar, and academic and administrative staff."
"The administration of Sainik School is vested in an autonomous body known as Sainik Schools Society under Ministry of Defence, India. Sainik Schools Society is headed by the Board of Governors under the Chairmanship of Raksha Mantri (Union Minister of Defense).[1] The Chief Ministers/Education Ministers of the states where the Sainik Schools are located, are members of the Board of Governors. There is a Local Board of Administration for each school with a senior defense service officer as its Chairman.Captain(IN) Kanchan Mukherjee has taken over as the 16th Principal of the school on 15 June 2015."
Annapurna
The school has a central mess is called Annapurna which caters food to all cadets in one sitting. Both vegetarian and non-vegetarian food is available. It is managed by a Mess manager.
Cadet Dormitories
The school is fully residential. All cadets are accommodated in Dormitories known as Houses) under direct supervision of Housemasters who act as their guides and guardians. The housemasters are assisted in their job by Matron/Hostel Superintendents who take care of cadets' personal hygiene and comforts. The houses at school are named after great Indian rivers and are as under:
Admissions
"Admissions are given in Class VI, Class IX and Class XI. Admission for classes VI and IX is carried out on the basis of an entrance exam usually held in January."
"N.C.C. is an integral part of students' life in Sainik School Bhubaneswar. The School has an Independent Company of Junior and Senior Division N.C.C. as integral part. N.C.C. unit of school comprises all the three wings of defence services i.e. the Army, Navy and Air Force."
"The hill stations are high-altitude towns used, especially by European colonialists, as a place of refuge from the summer heat. They are prevalent in Southeast Asia and the Indian Subcontinent, particularly India."
Daringbadi Koraput Phulabani
"The Indian subcontinent has seven principal mountain ranges and the largest of all is the Himalayas that lies in the northern part of India. The famous peaks and ranges include the Kangchenjunga range in the Eastern Himalayas which frames the hill stations of Darjeeling and Gangtok as well as the Nanda Devi in Uttarakhand. Then there is Shivalik range that also lies within the same region has some famous hill stations that include Dalhousie, Kullu, Shimla, Nanital and many more."
"Most of the hill stations in India were developed by the British, around a central mall, to get respite from the oppressive summer heat. Many have picturesque lakes as their focal point, making them excellent places for boating activities."
"Most of the hill stations in India are located in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya in the Himalayas and in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in Western ghats. Some of the hill stations in India are listed below by state."
"Several hill stations served as summer capitals of Indian provinces, princely states, or, in the case of Shimla, of British India itself. Since independence, the role of these hill stations as summer capitals has largely ended, but many hill stations remain popular summer resorts."
List of hill stations in India
"Khajjiar (Hindi: खज्जियार) is a hill station in Chamba district, Himachal Pradesh, India, located approximately 24 km from Dalhousie.[2]"
"Khajjiar sits on a small plateau with a small stream-fed lake in the middle that has been covered over with weeds. The hill station is surrounded by meadows and forests. It is about 6,500 feet (2,000 m) above sea level in the foothills of the Dhauladhar ranges of the Western Himalayas and peaks can be seen in the distance.[3] It is part of the Kalatop Khajjiar Sanctuary."
"Khajjiar can be reached from Dalhousie, the nearest major town and hill station, by bus in an hour or so. It has a rare combination of three ecosystems: lake, pasture and forest."
Mini Switzerland
Switzerland of Himachal Pradesh
"On 7 July 1992, Mr. Willy T. Blazer, Vice Counselor and Head of Chancery of Switzerland in India brought Khajjiar on the world tourism map by calling it ""Mini Switzerland"". He also put a sign board of a yellow Swiss hiking footpath showing Khajjiar's distance from the Swiss capital Bern-6194 km. Khajjiar is among the 160 locations in the world that bear topographical resemblance with Switzerland. The counselor also took from Khajjiar a stone which will form part of a stone collage around the Swiss Parliament to remind the visitors of Khajjiar as a Mini Switzerland of India.[1]"
Khajjiar during August
"There is a hotel and some cottages run by HP Tourism at Khajjiar where the tourists can stay. Besides that, there are two rest houses one each of P.W.D. and Forest Deptt. A couple of private hotels have also come up, which do not match the above places in terms of location and amenities.[1]"
Travel
Most tourists travel to Khajjiar by private or rented vehicles. Bus service to and from Khajjiar is limited and timing changes according to local demands.[1]
Places of interest
The best entertainment in Khajjiar is to walk around the lake or to go for long walks in the thick pine forests. Children enjoy this place because of the freedom of movement and the sloped terrain which permits them to roll down to the lake without getting hurt. Another attraction is horse riding.[1]
"Dauladhar mountains: Dense deodars, pines and lush green meadows are characteristic of Khajjiar. Since Khajjiar is situated at the base of the Dauladhar mountains, the tourists here can get panoramic views of the mountains."
"Khajjiar Lake is a small lake, surrounded by saucer-shaped lush green meadow and a floating island. The dense growth of weed called vacha has made its earth spongy. Now the banks stand covered by a thick layer of earth, formed by the years of dust settling down on the weeds."
Grasslands of Khajjiar
Trekking
Khajjiar offers numerous trekking opportunities. Khajjiar to Dainkund is a 3.5 kilometre easy to moderate trek. The trek starts 6 kilometres from Khajjiar on the Dalhousie-Khajjiar road and ends at Pholani Devi Temple at Dainkund. This trek with a well-defined trail and moderate ascent is an excellent trek for beginners and children. The trek offers excellent views and a beautiful camping site.[4]
Khajjiar
Indonesia
Iraq
Malaysia
Nepal
Village of Namche Bazaar in Nepal
Pakistan
Punjab
Sindh
Balochistan
Philippines
Sri Lanka
Syria
Europe
Cyprus
Vietnam
Oceania
Australia
External links
"A hill station is a town located at a higher elevation than the nearby plain or valley. The term was used mostly in colonial Asia, but also in Africa (albeit rarely), for towns founded by European colonial rulers as refuges from the summer heat, up where temperatures are cooler. In the Indian context most hill stations are at an altitude of approximately 1,000 to 2,500 metres (3,500 to 7,500 feet); very few are outside this range."
"Hill stations in India were established for a variety of reasons. After the revolt of 1857 the ""British sought further distance from what they saw as a disease-ridden land by escape to the Himalayas in the north and Nilgiri Hills in the south"", a pattern which started even before 1857. Other factors included anxieties about the dangers of life in India, among them ""fear of degeneration brought on by too long residence in a debilitating land."" The hill stations were meant to reproduce the home country, illustrated in Lord Lytton's statement about Ootacamund, in the 1870s, ""such beautiful English rain, such delicious English mud.""[1] Shimla was officially made the ""summer capital of India"" in the 1860s and hill stations ""served as vital centers of political and military power, especially after the 1857 revolt.""[2]:2"
List of hill stations in the world
Africa
Madagascar
Morocco
Nigeria
Asia
Bangladesh
Burma
Cambodia
China
Hong Kong
"Khonsa is the headquarters of Tirap district in the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh. It also houses one of the state school, viz. Ramakrishna Sarada Mission School. The Noctes, a Naga tribe, are the indigenous population, although the town is cosmopolitan in nature as people from every Indian state could be found here."
Khonsa is located at 27°01′N 95°34′E﻿ / ﻿27.02°N 95.57°E﻿ / 27.02; 95.57.[1] It has an average elevation of 1215 metres (3986 feet).
"As of 2001[update] India census,[2] Khonsa had a population of 9229. Males constitute 56% of the population and females 44%. Khonsa has an average literacy rate of 74%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 80%, and female literacy is 65%. In Khonsa, 15% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"The majority of the people are Christians, mostly Baptist, although some are Roman Catholics. There are relatively few animists. Among Nocte Catholics, syncretism between traditional religions and Christianity is evident.[3] American-sponsored missionaries in Khonsa can also be found in parts of Myanmar."
Khonsa
"Namdapha National Park is the largest protected area in the Eastern Himalaya biodiversity hotspot and is located in Arunachal Pradesh in Northeast India. It is also the third largest national park in India in terms of area. It is located in the Eastern Himalayan sub-region and is recognized as one of the richest areas in biodiversity in India.[1] The park harbours the northernmost lowland evergreen rainforests in the world at 27°N latitude.[2] The area is also known for extensive Dipterocarp forests, comprising the northwestern parts of the ecoregion of Mizoram-Manipur-Kachin rain forests.[3]"
"The park is located in Changlang district of the Northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, near its border with Myanmar. It spans an area of 1985 km2 with 177 km2 in buffer zone and 1808 km2 in the core area. The park is located between the Dapha bum range of the Mishmi Hills and the Patkai range with a wide altitudinal range between 200 m asl and 4571 m asl.[1][3] The area falls under both the Palearctic and Indo Malayan biogeographic areas resulting in a diverse species assemblage. The habitat changes with increasing altitude from tropical moist forests to Montane forests, temperate forests and at the higher elevations, to Alpine meadows and perennial snow. The park has extensive bamboo forests and secondary forests in addition to the primary forests."
Flora
Sapria himalayana and Balanophora are root parasites related to Rafflesia recorded from the area.[4] The floristic diversity of Namdapha is as follows:
Fauna
Mammals
The red giant flying squirrel is often seen in this park
"Because of many different vegetation zones, the park is home to a great diversity of mammal species. Four big cat species occur in the park: snow leopards, clouded leopards, common leopards and tigers. Other large predators are dholes, wolves, and Asiatic black bears. Smaller carnivores include red panda, red fox, yellow-throated marten, Eurasian otter, Oriental small-clawed otter, spotted linsang, binturong, common palm civet, small indian civet, large indian civet, masked palm civet, marbled cat, fishing cat, Asiatic golden cat, and two species of mongoose. Large herbivores are represented by elephants wild boar, forest musk deer, indian muntjac, hog deer, sambar, gaur, common goral, mainland serow, takin and bharal.[6] Seven species of non-human primates including stump-tailed macaque and slow loris, hoolock gibbons, capped langurs, Assamese macaques and rhesus macaques. [7][8]"
Namdapha National Park
"Among the earlier papers on the birds of Namdapha was published in 1990.[9] The park has about 425 bird species with many more to be recorded from work in the higher areas.[3] There are five species of hornbills recorded from the area. Several species of rare wren-babblers have been recorded in Namdapha. Other bird groups include laughing thrushes, parrotbills, fulvettas, shrike babblers and scimitar babblers. The snowythroated babbler is a rare species of babbler found only in the Patkai and Mishmi hills and nearby areas in Northern Myanmar, is found in Namdapha. Other rare, restricted range or globally endangered species include the rufous-necked hornbill, green cochoa, purple cochoa, beautiful nuthatch, Ward's trogon, ruddy kingfisher, blue-eared kingfisher, white-tailed fish eagle, Eurasian hobby, pied falconet, white-winged wood duck, Himalayan wood-owl, rufous-throated hill-partridge, and whitecheeked hill partridge. Several leaf warblers and migrants such as amur falcon and several thrushes can be seen here.[3] The first mid-winter waterfowl census in Namdapha was conducted in 1994 when species such as the white-bellied heron, a critically endangered bird was recorded for the first time.[10]"
Butterflies and moths
"The region is very rich in Lepidoptera species. Both butterflies and moths are found in equal abundance here, along with a variety of other insects. As per the observations taken during the National Camp organised here in October 2014 by BNHS, a lot of rare species' of butterflies were seen. These include the koh-i-noor, naga treebrown, red caliph, cruiser, wizard, fluffy tit, East Himalayan purple emperor, etc."
Ethnography
"There are a few settlements of Lisu tribal people within the park. Most of the Lisus are, however, located beyond the eastern border of the park towards the international border of India with Myanmar. There are also Chakma, Tangsa and Singpho settlements around the park.."
"Lambasingi (or Lammasingi) is a small village in the Chintapalli Mandal of Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh, India. It is situated in the agency area. This place is often referred as Kashmir of Andhra Pradesh. The temperatures in this places go as low as 0 °C in December – January). This village is situated at a height of above 1000 meters from the sea level.[2][1]"
"Lambasingi is connected by roads. It is about 101 kilometres (63 mi) from Visakhapatnam,19 kilometres (12 mi) from Chintapalle and 32 kilometres (20 mi) from Narsipatnam"
Lambasingi
Ancestor worship at Kotagiri
This Kotagiri village has only 16 houses
Kotagiri is a Panchayat town in The Nilgiris District[1] in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu (. Kotagiri is situated at an elevation of around 1793m above sea level.
Kotagiri is located at 11°26′N 76°53′E﻿ / ﻿11.43°N 76.88°E﻿ / 11.43; 76.88.[2] It has an average elevation of 1793 meters (5882 ft).It was supposed to have the second best climate in Tamil Nadu.
"As of 2011[update] India census,[3] Kothagiri town Panchayat has population of 28,207 of which 13,607 are males while 14,600 are females as per report released by Census India 2011. Population of Children with age of 0-6 is 2340 which is 8.30% of total population of Kotagiri (TP). In Kotagiri Town Panchayat, Female Sex Ratio is of 1073 against state average of 996. Moreover Child Sex Ratio in Kotagiri is around 945 compared to Tamil Nadu state average of 943. Literacy rate of Kotagiri city is 86.79% higher than state average of 80.09%. In Kotagiri, Male literacy is around 93.55% while female literacy rate is 80.57%. Majority of people speak Tamil (தமிழ்) as their first language."
Villages in Kothagiri Town Panchayat
Kotagiri
St. Jude's Public School & Junior College St. Marys Home Matriculation School
"Champhai (Pron:/tʃamˈpʰaɪ/) is a border town in Mizoram state, in far eastern India. It is the headquarters of Champhai district, one of the eight districts in the state. It is located on the Indo-Myanmar border and is situated in a strategically important location. Because of this, it is the main business corridor for India and Myanmar in the area."
"The area of Champhai is 3,185.83 square kilometres (1,230 sq mi). The average annual rainfall is 1,814 millimetres (71.4 in)."
"Champhai was the headquarters of Lalbura Sailo, a Mizo Chief against whom the British Expedition of 1871–72 was directed. It was accorded the status of a fort during the British period.[1]"
Economy
"The economy of Champhai is mainly agriculture and border trade. Champhai is also the main trading centre of Mizoram with goods like clothes, silverware and electronics imported from Myanmar[2] through the trading post in Zokhawthar.[3]It has a flatland measuring 113 kilometres long and 48 kilometres in width for wet rice cultivation which can produce 19,200 quintals of rice per year. 10,000 quintals of grape were cultivated in 2011 alone churning 20,000 bottles a year. These are the two main agricultural products."
"Champhai has a moderate climate. In winter the temperature varies from 10 °C to 20 °C and in summer, and between 15 °C and 30 °C in winter."
Education
Champhai College is the only higher centre of education in the town.Many government owned and private own school are there.
"Champhai is located in a very beautiful setting, with hills on all sides and a thriving culture. Some of the more interesting places you can visit during your trip to Champhai are:"
Media
Transport
A helicopter service by Pawan Hans[7] has been started which connects the Aizawl with Champhai.[8] The distance between Champhai and Aizawl is 194 km and is connected with regular service of bus and sumo.[9]
Champhai
"Nohkalikai Falls, 1854"
"Nohkalikai Falls is the tallest plunge waterfall in India.[1] Its height is 1115 feet (340 metres),[2] making it as the highest waterfall in India. The waterfall is located near Cherrapunji, one of the wettest places on Earth. Nohkalikai Falls are fed by the rainwater collected on the summit of comparatively small plateau and decrease in power during the dry season in December - February. Below the falls there has formed a plunge pool with unusual green colored water.[3]"
Nohkalikai Falls
Nohkalikai Falls
"Amarkantak (NLK Amarakaṇṭaka) is a pilgrim town and a Nagar Panchayat in Anuppur, Madhya Pradesh, India. The Amarkantak region is a unique natural heritage area and is the meeting point of the Vindhya and the Satpura Ranges, with the Maikal Hills being the fulcrum. This is where the Narmada River, the Son River and Johila River emerge."
"Popular 15th-century Indian mystic and poet Kabir is said to have meditated on Kabir Chabutra, also called the platform of Kabir, situated in the town of Amarkantak.[1]"
"Amarkantak is a combination of two Sanskrit words, amara (immortal) and kantaka (obstruction). The poet Kalidas has mentioned it as Amrakuta, which later became Amarkantak.[2]"
"Amarkantak is located in the state of Madhya Pradesh in India at 22°40′N 81°45′E﻿ / ﻿22.67°N 81.75°E﻿ / 22.67; 81.75. It has an average elevation of 1048 metres (3438 ft). Roads running through Rewa, Shahdol, Anuppur, Jabalpur, Katni and Pendra connect it. The nearest railway stations are Anuppur and Pendra Road 43 km via Keonchi and only 28 km via Jwaleshwar. The nearest airport is Dumna Jabalpur (Jabalpur Airport) in the city of Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh (240 km) which has daily flight service to Delhi and Mumbai.[3] [4]"
"As of 2001[update] India census,[5] Amarkantak had a population of 7074. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Amarkantak has an average literacy rate of 68%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 62% of the males and 21% of females literate. 17% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Flora and fauna
"The town of Amarkantak is surrounded by a rich variety of flora with medicinal properties.[6] The Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary, is located at a distance of no more than 40 km from the town of Amarkantak in the state of Chhattisgarh on the road to Bilaspur.[7] The enchanting lush green forest belt in Amarkantak is a part of Achanakmar-Amarkantak Biosphere Reserve. The forests of Amarkantak are linked with the forests of Kanha National Park. Amarkantak falls on the Kanha-Achanakmar Corridor, a hilly region covered with dense forests. Kanha and Achanakmar are both conserved wildlife parks in India famous for Bengal tigers.[8]"
Ancient temples of Kalachuri period
Educational Institutions
"A central university, established under the Indira Gandhi National Tribal University Act[11] in 2007, to promote research in various aspects of tribal communities and provide higher education to the tribal population.[12][13]"
"India, officially the Republic of India is a country in South Asia. It is made up of 29 states and 7 union territories. All Indian states have their own government and Union territories come under the jurisdiction of the Central Government. As most of the other countries India too has a national emblem-The lion capital. Apart from India's national emblem, each of its States and Union Territories have their own state seals and symbols which include state animals, birds, trees, flowers etc.[1] A list of state birds of India is given below. See Symbols of Indian states and territories for a complete list of all State characters and seals."
"A Twenty20 International (T20I) is a form of cricket match between two representative teams, each having T20I status as determined by the International Cricket Council (ICC), and is played under the rules of Twenty20 cricket.[1] The first such match was played between Australia and New Zealand on 17 February 2005.[2] The Indian cricket team played its first T20I match—under the captaincy of Virender Sehwag—during the 2006–07 series in South Africa;[3][4][5] India won the one-off match by six wickets.[5]"
T20I captains
Footnotes
"As of August 2016, Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the captain and has made the most appearances for India in T20Is.[6] Virat Kohli is the leading run scorer with 1657 runs at an average of 57.13.[6] Suresh Raina, Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul are the only players to score a century in T20Is for India.[6] With 52 wickets, Ravichandran Ashwin is the team's leading wicket-taker,[7] while his four wickets for 8 runs remain the best bowling figures for an India bowler in the format.[8] India's highest total of 244 came against West Indies during the 2016 India's Tour of USA, which they lost by 1 run.[9][lower-alpha 1] The team's lowest total of 74 came against Australia in 2008.[9]"
"As of August 2016, India is the third-most successful team in the format, with 46 wins and a tie from 78 matches.[11] India won the world championship at the inaugural edition of the ICC World Twenty20, defeating Pakistan by five runs.[12] In 2016, it won the 13th Asia Cup—the first to be played in the Twenty20 format—in Bangladesh by defeating the hosts by eight wickets."
Key
Players
"The list is arranged in the order in which each player won his first cap. To sort this table by any statistic, click on the icon on the column title. Statistics are last updated on 28 August 2016.[13]"
"Lakshmipathy (or Lakshmi) Balaji (Tamil: லக்ஷ்மிபதி பாலாஜி,  pronunciation (help·info), born 27 September 1981) is an Indian cricketer. He is a right arm fast medium bowler."
"L. Balaji was born in Uthukaadu, Walajabad in Kanchipuram District, Tamil Nadu."
International cricket
"Balaji became a member of the Indian cricket team as Fast Medium bowler in 2003. Playing for his state team since 2001, he made his Test debut against New Zealand at Ahmedabad in 2003. He was recognised after his performance in the 2004 India Pakistan series. In that series, he played a significant part in Indian team's historic victories.[1] But after an injury, his international cricket career was put on hold. He made a comeback in Pakistan's 2005 tour of India, taking 5 wickets in the first innings. Injury kept him out of cricket for the next 3 years. Balaji made his return to domestic cricket in 2007. After a strong 2008 domestic season where Balaji was instrumental in helping Tamil Nadu reach the Ranji Trophy semifinals, Balaji was called up to the international squad in January 2009 to replace an injured Munaf Patel who sustained a groin injury.[2] Balaji was included in the playing XI for the final match of the series against Sri Lanka.[3] India went on to lose the match. Balaji was rested for the subsequent Twenty20 match. In February the BCCI announced that Balaji had been dropped from the ODI squad to tour New Zealand but had been selected for the test squad.[4] Thus marking Balaji's return to the test squad after a five-year hiatus having last been part of the test squad in the 2004 series against Pakistan."
On 18 July 2012 he was included in 30 probables for the World T20 tournament to be played in Sri Lanka in September 2012.And subsequently was selected in the final 15-member squad.He made his comeback into the Indian side in the second T20 International against New Zealand at his home ground-Chennai.[5]
Indian Premier League
"Balaji played for the Chennai Super Kings team in the 1st 3 editions of the IPL starting from the 2008 Indian Premier League. On 10 May 2008, he picked up the first hat-trick of the IPL tournament in the match against Kings XI Punjab at Chennai, and rounded off the evening with a match-winning five-wicket haul. His tournament was to end on a low as he bowled the final over to Shane Warne and Sohail Tanvir, with the latter hitting the winning runs off the final ball. Since his successful spinal operation in England by Prof. John Dowell he has returned to full form. Balaji has been notably consistent for the economy rate in all T20 matches in the IPL Chennai Super Kings as the normal matches of T20 seldom had run chases below or near 130 . He has not done much in the batting side of IPL."
"In the second season of the Indian Premier League, he picked four wickets against Rajasthan Royals on 30 April 2009, leading the Chennai Super Kings to victory."
"Bhubaneswar railway station (BBS) serves Bhubaneswar, the capital of the Indian state of Odisha and it is the headquarters of the East Coast Railway zone of the Indian Railways."
"During the period 1893 to 1896, 800 miles of East Coast State Railway was built and opened to traffic. It necessitated construction of some of the largest bridges across rivers like Brahmani, Kathajodi, Kuakhai and Birupa."
Railways Reorganization
"The Bengal Nagpur Railway was nationalized in 1944.[1] Eastern Railway was formed on 14 April 1952 with the portion of East Indian Railway Company east of Mughalsarai and the Bengal Nagpur Railway.[2] In 1955, South Eastern Railway was carved out of Eastern Railway. It comprised lines mostly operated by BNR earlier.[2][3] Amongst the new zones started in April 2003 were East Coast Railway and South East Central Railway. Both these railways were carved out of South Eastern Railway.[2]"
Bhubaneswar Yard and Khurda Road-Bhubaneswar section was electrified in 2001-02. Bhubaneswar-Barang section was electrified in 2002-03.[4]
"RailTel, the telecom arm of the Indian Railways provides high-speed public free WiFi service at Bhubaneswar railway station in partnership with Google. The service was inaugurated by Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu accompanied by Minister of State for Railways Manoj Sinha, said the WiFi service will benefit 1.4 lakh visitors at Bhubaneswar station daily.[5]"
Nearby stations
Bhubaneswar has total 6 railway stations within its city limits at present.
New Bhubaneswar
"As Bhubaneswar railway station is getting saturated, a satellite passenger terminal is under construction at New Bhubaneswar (between Mancheswar and Barang). While Bhubaneswar railway station is located on the southern side of the city, New Bhubaneswar railway station would be located on the northern side.[6]"
Bhubaneswar railway station is amongst the top hundred booking stations of Indian Railway.[7] The total number of halting trains in Bhubaneswar railway station is 173 and the total number of originating trains is 34.[8] More than 1.5 lakhs passengers commute through this railway station daily.
Bhubaneswar railway station
"Chandikhole is a place in Jajpur district, Odisha, India. The place has been named after Goddess ""Chandi"" worshipped by late monk Baba Bhairabananda Bramhachari who established the deity of Maa Chandi in one of the adjoining hills of Barunei full of dense forest and ferrocious animals in 1932. It is also one of the industrial hubs of Odisha."
It is located in the Jajpur District of Odisha.
"Chandikhole is one of the end points of National Highway 200, the other end being Raipur. National Highway 5 passes through Chandikhole."
"Nearest airport is Biju Patnaik Airport at Bhubaneswar, which is at a distance of about 70 km."
Why is Chandikhole Famous?
Chandikhole is famous in Odisha for its peda(a typical odia sweet made of milk). Mouth-watering and easy-to-savour pedas within a range of Rs.2 a piece to Rs.5 a piece are available here.
"Swaminarayan, the founder of the Swaminarayan Sampraday, established temples, known as mandirs (Devnagari: स्वामीनारायण मन्दिर), as part of his philosophy of theism and deity worship. These mandirs are known as Swaminarayan Hindu temples.[1]"
"He constructed nine temples in the following cities; Ahmedabad, Bhuj, Muli, Vadtal, Junagadh, Dholera, Dholka, Gadhpur & Jetalpur. In these temples he installed images of various Hindu gods, such as NarNarayan Dev, LaxmiNarayan Dev, RadhaKrishna Dev, RadhaRaman Dev, Revti-Baldevji, Madan Mohan Dev etc.[2] Each of these nine original temples fall either under the NarNarayan Dev Gadi, Ahmedabad or the LaxmiNarayan Dev Gadi, Vadtal depending on their geographical location.[3]"
"One of the most prominent features of the heritage of Swaminarayan is temple architecture. The images in the temples built by Swaminarayan are the evidence of the priority of Krishna. All of the temples constructed during his life show some form of Krishna, and all temples since have such worshipable murtis. In the temples of the dioceses of Ahmedabad and Vadtal, they are predominantly a central altar or a shrine. Human forms are predominant for an known exception of a Hanuman temple at Sarangpur, where Hanuman is the central figure.[4] The temples have accommodations for sadhus built next to them. Stones were quarried in far places and carried to the temple sites.[5]"
"Today there are over a thousand Swaminarayan temples,[7] spread across five continents, which come under the above two Gadis (seats) of the Swaminarayan Sampraday.[8]"
List of Swaminarayan temples
"Jharsuguda Airport (IATA: VEJH) is located 5 kilometres north-east of Jharsuguda in western Odisha, India.[1] The airfield was used during World War II by the Allied Forces to counter Japanese advances. After the war and Indian Independence, the airfield was abandoned. Air Odisha launched non-scheduled commercial flights between Rourkela, Jharsuguda and Bhubaneswar on 2 November 2012. Air Odisha launched the experimental flight of a nine-seater aircraft of at Rourkela airport in the evening after being flagged off at Bhubaneswar.[2]"
Expansion
"Jharsuguda airport is spread over 909.22 acres. The State Government sanctioned Rs. 50 crore in July 2013 to kick-start the Rs 175-crore airport development project to be jointly executed by the Airports Authority of India(AAI) and the State Government.[3] AAI will invest about Rs. 80 Crores for the first phase of renovation of the airport, to make it fit for operation of 15-30 seater aircraft.[4] In the second phase, it will be upgraded to the status of a full-fledged airport. The AAI needs an additional 275.75 acres to convert it into a full-fledged airport.[5] A 5,500 square metre new terminal building and air traffic control (ATC) tower will also be built.On 30 July 2014, Odisha government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Airport Authority of India for development of the state's second airport at Jharsuguda.[3]"
"Jeypore Airport (IATA: PYB, ICAO: VEJP) is located 3 kilometres north-west of the town of Jeypore in Odisha, India. The airstrip was constructed in 1962 along with the establishment of a Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) factory nearby at Sunabeda.[1] In the 1980s, Vayudoot operated a daily Bhubaneswar-bound flight via Visakhapatnam.[2]"
The airport is spread over 60 acres. The state government has asked the Koraput district administration to identify another 310 acres of land adjoining the existing airstrip to facilitate its expansion.[1] The Odisha government has made a provision of Rs 6 crore for the renovation of the airstrip.[3]
Airlines and destinations
"Berhampur Airport also known as Rangeilunda airstrip is located 9 km east of Berhampur (aka Brahmapur) in Odisha, India. The airstrip was built by the British during World War II and is adjacent to the Berhampur University."
Rangeilunda airstrip is spread over 40 acres and is under the control of the State Public Works Department. The runway is 750 meters (around 2250 ft) long and is periodically maintained by the state government of Odisha.[1] There is a suitable helipad too.
"The runway is used by the defence establishment, State Government, Private companies and VIPs to reach Berhampur and other places in south Odisha. The State's second flying training Institute is coming up at the airport.[2][3]"
"Rourkela Airport (IATA: RRK, ICAO: VERK) is a private airport located near Chhend Colony, 6 kilometres west of the steel city of Rourkela in the state of Odisha. It is the only airport of the Metropolitan area of Rourkela city. It is mostly used by dignitaries visiting Rourkela, especially officials of Steel Authority of India Limited(SAIL) and other V.I.Ps.The planes from this airport also travel to the city of Kolkata."
"The airstrip was constructed by the Tata Iron and Steel Company in 1950s for the purpose of carrying officials of the company, who regularly visited the area to survey and supervise the transportation of dolomite and other minerals from the district of Sundargarh for their industry. Small planes used to fly daily between Rourkela and Jamshedpur carrying the officials between these two steel cities."
"In 1961, this airport was taken by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). With the construction of the new airport, Vayudoot started Flight PF-715 flying daily between Ranchi and Kolkata via Rourkela. Also another flight between Ranchi and Bhubaneswar via Rourkela used to operate in the late 80s. Air services to Rourkela were stopped in early 90s when Vayudoot suffered heavy losses and reduced its operations from serving 105 airports to just 45 airports. In 1994 the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) took control of the airport from AAI. The airport is still used by SAIL to receive its private jets."
"A three-member survey team of AAI that made a spot assessment of the Rourkela airstrip in October 2007 to find out the feasibility of re-introduction of air connectivity to the city expressed satisfaction over the existing infrastructure.[1] Air Odisha (AOAPL) started charter flights flying everyday between Rourkela, Jharsuguda and Bhubaneswar to Kolkata on 1 November 2012. Finally the golden era of domestic flights from Rourkela had started, by mid-2013 regular flights from Rourkela to BBSR and Kolkata had become easy and convenient for the domestic passengers.[2]"
Airlines and destinations
"Nuagaon Airstrip (IATA: VE63) is a private/public airstrip located at Nuagaon in the Balangir district of Odisha. Nearest airport/airstrip to this airstrip is Utkela Airstrip in Bhawanipatna, Odisha. [1]"
Nuagaon Airport
"Morni is a village and tourist attraction in the Morni Hills at the height of 1267 meters in the Panchkula district of the Indian state of Haryana. It is located around 45 kilometres (28 mi) from Chandigarh,35 km from Panchkula city and is known for its Himalayan views, flora, and lakes.[1] The name of Morni is believed to derive from a queen who once ruled the area."
"The Morni Hills are offshoots of the Shivalik range of the Himalayas, which run in two parallel ranges. The village of Morni lies on the mountainside, at 1,220 metres (4,000 ft) above mean sea level. Among the spurs of the hills lie two lakes, the larger of these being about 550 metres (1,800 ft) long and 460 metres (1,510 ft) broad, and the smaller around 365 metres (1,198 ft) either way."
Overview
Haryana Tourism's Hotel Mountain Quail
"The Haryana Government has constructed the Mountain Quail Resort for tourists,[1] along with a motorable road to connect the Morni Hills with the Haryana State Highway near Panchkula. Three further roads connect Morni to Chandigarh and other nearby towns."
Accommodation
"At Tikkar Taal, dormitory accommodation for campers has been made available by Haryana Tourism.[1]"
"An Indian Forest Department rest house named ""Lal Munia"" and a PWD rest house have also been constructed to accommodate tourists and trackers. The resort includes small playgrounds for children, along with a roller skating rink and a swimming pool.[1]"
Morni Hill Fort
"There is an old fort in the Morni area, which is now in ruins. The hills are covered by pine trees, and are popular trekking locations.[1]"
Tikkar Taal
"A hill divides the two lakes, the larger one is callled Tikkar Taal which is 550 meter wide and 460 meter long[2] and the smaller one is called Chota Tikkar Taal (meaning the little tikkar lake) is 365 meter wide and long,[2] as the legend goes there is be a hidden channel linking them, as the water level of two lakes remains roughly the same. Morni locals look upon the lakes as sacred.[3]"
Morni Hill Archaeological Temple Site
A 12th century temple exists near the tikkar taal and an archaeological dig uncovered 12th century artifacts which are kept there in the open.[3]
External links
Morni
"Gaddi woman cutting grass, Dharamkot. By Alfred Hallett c. 1980."
View from Dharamkot looking west. 1980
"Dharamkot is a small hill station in Kangra district in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India."
Carlton Cottage. Dharamkot. 1980
"On the crest of a hill above McLeodGanj, Dharamkot is an attractive spot that presents a wide view of the Kangra Valley and the Dhauladhar ranges. There are a couple of small (and interesting) eateries around. Several foreigners have taken residence in the area; all live in village homes and tiny guest houses. Dharamkot also has the Vipassana meditation centre, Dhamma Shikara, as well as the Tushita Meditation Centre which is a centre for the study and practice of Buddhism in the Tibetan Mahayana tradition."
Triund
Majestic view from Magic Cafe; one of the 4 cafes on the way to Triund.
"The trek to Triund starts from Gallu Devi temple, where people going for this trek are first asked to register their names. From Mcleodganj, a person first must reach Dharamkot via auto or you can simply get a cab straight to Gallu Devi temple. There is a small route via Dharamkot which leads straight to Gallu Devi temple in case a person wants to save up on the cab charges."
Snowline
View from just outside Snowline Cafe. November 2015
"The next stop after Triund is Snowline. It is a 2-3 hour trek from Triund and usually is a stop for those wanting to go further up to Indrahar Pass. Snowline also presents an overwhelming view and the altitude is also higher than Triund. There is only one cafe up there and the owner of that cafe has been there for the last 20 years. The snowline cafe as it is called, also has provisions for sleeping bags and tents."
"Narkanda is a town and a nagar panchayat in Shimla district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is at an altitude of 2708 meters on the Hindustan-Tibet Road (NH 22) in Himachal Pradesh, India. It is about 65 km from Shimla and surrounded by the Shivalik Range that span a large part of Himachal Pradesh."
The dak bungalow at Narkanda in 1886.
Narkanda town today.
"It is a skiing resort in winter. It connects Shimla with Rampur and a detour also goes to Thanedhar, the prime apple belt of Himachal Pradesh where Satyananda Stokes started the apple culture."
"Narkanda is located at 31°16′N 77°27′E﻿ / ﻿31.27°N 77.45°E﻿ / 31.27; 77.45.[1] It has an average elevation of 2621 metres (8599 feet). Hatu Peak which is at 11000 ft is 5 km from Narkanda. Kotgarh is 16 km from Narkanda and famous for apple orchards. Satyanand Stokes brought the apple to this place and helped strengthen the economy of this area. Today Rs 3,000 Crore direct and indirect income is generated through apple production.Presently apple growers are shifting to bring their farm under cherry cultivation to fetch fast money in their pocket as holdings are marginalised due to population factor.The grandson of Mr. Stokes is experimenting to develop new variety of apple for better production."
"As of 2010[update] India census,[2] Narkanda had a population of 2712. Males constitute 62% of the population and females 38%. Narkanda has an average literacy rate of 80%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 85%, and female literacy is 72%. In Narkanda, 15% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Mashobra is a town in Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. It is connected to the state capital Shimla (earlier Simla) through the historic Hindustan–Tibet Road built in 1850 by Lord Dalhousie.
"Mashobra is located at 31°08′N 77°14′E﻿ / ﻿31.13°N 77.23°E﻿ / 31.13; 77.23.[1] It has an average elevation of 2,146 metres (7,041 feet)."
The retreat
Mashobra is notable for housing one of the two Presidential retreats in India. The other retreat is Rashtrapati Nilayam in Secunderabad.
"The president visits Mashobra at least once every year, and during this time his or her core office shifts to the retreat at Chharabra, in the vicinity of Mashobra. The building housing the retreat is a completely wooden structure originally constructed in 1850.[2]"
"Mashobra is also popular as a tourist destination.[3][4] Wildflower Hall at Chharabra, now a property of Oberoi Hotels, has been residence to Lord Kitchener as well as Lord Ripon during the British Raj.[5] Pankaj Mishra is a famous writer/poet who lives in Mashobra. [6] At 3 km from Mashobra is Carignano, a beautiful picnic spot that was a villa of Chevalier Federico Peliti,[7] an Italian photographer in India from the times of Queen Victoria, who named it in honor of his native town Carignano near Turin in Italy. The villa was transformed to a weekend resort in 1920 and is also referred to in one of the novels by Anita Desai.[8] Amit Khanna,Film Maker,Poet ,Writer and Media Guru has a cottage in Mashobra where he spends several weeks every year working on his new book."
Flora and fauna
"Mashobra is part of Shimla Water Catchmentanct Wildlife Sanctuary.[9] The natural vegetation comprises pine, oak, cedar or Himalayan deodar, and rhododendron, as well as maple and horse chestnut. The wildlife consists of monkeys, baboons, jackals, kakkar (barking deer), and the occasional leopard, as well as numerous bird species such as the Himalayan eagle, pheasants, chikor and partridges."
Himalayan International School at Chharabra is a major residential school in Mashobra.
Mashobra
"Netarhat is a town in Latehar district[1](earlier in the erstwhile Palamu district[2]) in the Indian state of Jharkhand.[3] Referred to as the “Queen of Chotanagpur”, it is a popular hill station.[4] The town is famous for Netarhat Residential School, set up in 1954."
"Netarhat is located at 23°29′00″N 84°16′00″E﻿ / ﻿23.4833°N 84.2667°E﻿ / 23.4833; 84.2667, at a height of 1,071 metres (3,514 ft).[5]"
"It is a plateau covered with thick forest.[4] Located in the Pat region of Chota Nagpur Plateau, Netarhat plateau is about 4 miles (6.4 km) long and 2.5 miles (4.0 km) broad. It consists of crystalline rocks and has a summit capped with sandstone trap or laterite. The highest point is 3,696 feet (1,127 m)[2]"
Transport
"It is located 156 kilometres (97 mi) west of Ranchi, the state capital.[3] It is 210 kilometres (130 mi) from Daltonganj."
Tourism
Netarhat is famous for its glorious sunrises and sunsets during the summer months.[3]
"Netarhat has several places of tourist interests including Magnolia Point (10 km from Netarhat, ideal site for viewing sunset), Upper Ghaghri Falls (4 km from Netarhat), Lower Ghaghri Falls (10 km from Netarhat), Koel View Point (3 km from Netarhat), Lodh Falls (60 km from Netarhat, the highest waterfall in Jharkhand), Sadni Falls (35 km from Netarhat).[4]"
Netarhat Vidyalaya is a residential public school set up in 1954.[6]
Tea plantations in Munnar
"Munnar is a town and hill station located in the Idukki district of the southwestern Indian state of Kerala. Munnar is situated at around 1,600 metres (5,200 ft) above sea level,[2] in the Western Ghats range of mountains."
"Hills around the tea plantations, Munnar"
"Chirimiri Coalfield is located in Koriya district in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh in the valley of the Hasdeo River, a tributary of the Mahanadi."
Other coalfields
There are several other coalfields in the region. Kotma sub-basin of Sohagpur Coalfield is 14 kilometres (8.7 mi) from Chirimiri Coalfield. Jhilimili Coalfield is 48 kilometres (30 mi) north of Chirimiri railway station. Sonhat Colliery lies north-east of Chirimiri.[1]
"Tata Iron and Steel Company initiated prospecting of coal but no mining was carried out by them. The Chirimiri colliery was opened in 1930 (production started in 1932), New Chirimiri colliery came up in 1942, Pure Chirimiri colliery in 1945, and North Chirimiri colliery in 1946. Subsequently, New Chirimiri Pondi Hills, West Chirimiri, Duman Hill and Korea collieries started operating. Coal production rose from 264,000 tonnes in 1933 to 3,162,500 tonnes in 1980.[1]"
"The collieries in Chirimiri Coalfield were owned by several companies and owners such as Chirimiri Colliery Company Pvt. Ltd., Dababhoy's New Chirimiri Ponri Hill Company (Private) Limited, United Collieries Limited, K.N. Dhady and Indra Singh & Sons (Private) Limited. These were nationalized in 1973.[2]"
"Chirimiri Coalfield is a part of Central India Coalfields. The latter is spread over the districts of Surguja, Koriya (both in Chhattisgarh), Shahdol and Umaria (both in Madhya Pradesh). There are fourteen coalfields in this group, namely Korar, Umaria, Johilla, Sohagpur, Sonhat, Jhilimili, Chirimiri, Sendurgarh, Koreagarh, Damhamunda, Panchbahini, Hasdeo-Arand, Lakhanpur and Bishrampur. The group covers an area of about 5,345 square kilometres (2,064 sq mi) with estimated reserves of 15,613.98 million tonnes. The deposits are at a depth of 0–1200 meters. Therefore, extraction is mainly amenable to underground mining except a few blocks in eastern part of these coalfields which have opencast potential.[3]"
Chirimiri coalfield is spread over 125 square kilometres (48 sq mi) of hilly country and includes both the sections – Kurasia and Chirimiri. Total reserves in Chirimiri coalfield have been estimated to be around 312.11 million tonnes.[1][4]
According to Geological Survey of India reserves of non-coking coal up to a depth of 300 m in Chirimiri Coalfield was 362.16 million tonnes.[5]
Chirimiri was connected to Anuppur by the 69 kilometres (43 mi) Annupur-Chirimiri branch line in 1939.[6]
"Mainpat (मैनपाट) is a small village in the Surguja district in the northern part of the state of Chhattisgarh, India. Lying about 45 kilometres (28 mi) by road from Ambikapur, the hill station features the Tiger Point Waterfall."
"Recently, the village has been just developed infrastructure like road & some guest houses. Still there are long miles to go for further development in this important hilly place of Chhattisgarh. With the help of state & union central govt assistance, the Mantri & state politicians should quickly do more focusses upon the village electricity conditions, some building up of good hotels & shops, etc. So far, the very poor roads & electricity of the village are the two chief concerns. Observing the present road conditions, still more weathered perennial roads should be made esp. inside the layers of village. Consequently, very soon, the Mainpat village will become the real beautiful & one of the major tourist spots of the state."
The village was traditionally home to the Yadavs and tribes including the Manjhi.[2]
"Kalpa is a small town in the Sutlej river valley, above Recong Peo in the Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, Northern India, in the Indian Himalaya. Inhabited by Kinnauri people and famous for its apple orchards. Apples are a major cash-crop for the region. The local inhabitants follow a syncretism of Hinduism and Buddhism, and many temples in Kalpa are dedicated to both Hindu and Buddhist gods and goddesses. The average literacy rate of Kalpa is around 83.75%.One of the famous music director of Himachal Pradesh,Surender Negi, is from Kalpa. India's first ever voter Shyam Saran Negi also belongs to Kalpa.[1]"
Geography
"Kalpa is at 31°32′N 78°15′E﻿ / ﻿31.53°N 78.25°E﻿ / 31.53; 78.25.[2] It has an average elevation of 2,960 metres (9,711 feet). It is located 265 kilometres (165 mi) beyond Shimla on the NH-22 in Kinnaur district. It is located at the base of the Kinnaur Kailash snow-capped ranges. The Shivling peaks rise up to 20,000 feet (6,000 m). Kalpa is among apple orchards, pine-nut forests and the stately deodhars. It is above the town of Reckong Peo, the district headquarters of Kinnaur, which has a hundred-year-old Buddhist monastery."
Overview
"Kalpa is one of the biggest and beautiful village of Kinnaur district. Kalpa has an average literacy rate of 83.75%. It is very famous for production of high quality of apples, and pinus gerardiana also known as chilghoza. All the area in tehsil Kalpa is apple growing area, which is the main cash crops of those people who live here. Kalpa is a famous tourist place in the world, a beautiful view of Kinnaur Kailash (locally known as kinner kailsh) attracts tourists here, there are spectacular sights early in the morning as the rising sun touches the snowy peak with crimson and golden light. Kalpa is surrounded by Deodar, apple, and pinus gerardiana chilghoza trees. In winter all the villages are covered by about 5–7 feet of snow, and the temperature can drop to as low as -20°C, heavy woolens are required even most of time in summer."
Places of Interest
"Reckong Peo : Located 260 km from Shimla, 7 km from Powari and 8 km from Kalpa. Reckong Peo is the headquarters of district Kinnaur."
Kothi : Just 3 km from Recong Peo. Kothi has a temple dedicated to the goddess Chanadika Devi. Set against a backdrop of mountains and groves of the deodar the temple has an unusual architectural style and fine sculpture. An exquisite gold image of goddess is enshrined in sanctum.
Climate
"All the area of Kalpa enjoys a temperate climate due to its high elevation, with long winters from October to May, and short summers from June to September. During winter time heavy woolens are required when temperature goes below freezing point around -15 degree to - 20 degree."
"The staple food is wheat, ogla, phafra and barley which are local produce. Besides these kankani, cheena, maize, chollair and bathu are also taken. The principal pulses consumed are peas, black peas, mash and rajmash. The vegetables usually consumed are cabbage, turnips, peas, beans, pumpkin, potato, okra and tomato besides some locally available wild green vegetables leaves. They relish rice too which is imported from the plains. Taking a salted tea called cha in the morning and evening is very popular among the Kinnauris which is usually taken along with sattu made of parched barley flour. People are non-vegetarian and they relish goat and ram's meat. Taking of alcoholic drinks in their day-to-day life and also on the ceremonial or festive occasions is quite common among them. Alcohol is distilled at the household level. It is made out of fruits like grapes, apple, pear etc. grown locally and of barley."
"Generally, Kinner houses have storerooms for keeping grain and dried fruits, and separate wooden grain-storage structures, called kathar. Pakpa, a piece of sheepskin or yakskin, is often placed on the khayarcha mat. Traditionally Kinners use utensils made of brass and bronze. Modern influences have included the introduction of Chinese crockery, and utensils made of stainless steel and aluminium. Clothes are mainly of wool. The thepang, a grey woollen cap, is worn with a white velvet band. The Tibetan chhuba, a long woollen coat which resembles an achkan, is worn as well, with a sleeveless woollen jacket. While men wear woollen churidhar pajamas, and tailored woollen shirts such as the chamn kurti, the women wrap themselves up in a dohru. The first wrap of the dohru is based on the back, with embroidered borders displayed throughout its length, which stretches to the heels. Darker shades of colours are preferred for the Dohru, although other beautifully coloured shawls may be worn, usually draped over the shoulders. A choli, another type of full sleeved blouse worn by women, may serve as a decorative lining as well. The Kinners are classified mainly into two castes: lower and upper caste. Again both of these categories are divided into sub classes. The caste system is more prevalent in the Lower and Middle Kinnaur regions"
"Hinduism is the main religion in the district followed by Tibetan Buddhism. These two religions have undergone religious mixing, along with some indigenous shamanistic practices."
"The Kangra Fort (Hindi: कांगड़ा) is located 20 kilometers from the town of Dharamsala on the outskirts of the town of Kangra, India."
"The Kangra Fort was built by the royal Rajput family of Kangra State (the Katoch dynasty), which traces its origins to the ancient Trigarta Kingdom, mentioned in the Mahabharata epic. It is the largest fort in the Himalayas and probably the oldest dated fort in India."
"The fort of Kangra resisted Akbar's siege in 1615. However, Akbar's son Jehangir successfully subdued the fort in 1620.[1] Mughal Emperor Jahangir with the help of Suraj Mal garrisoned with his troops."
"The Katoch Kings repeatedly looted Mughal controlled regions, weakening the Mughal control, aiding in the decline of Mughal power, Raja Sansar Chand-II succeeded in recovering the ancient fort of his ancestors, in 1789. Maharaja Sansar Chand fought multiple battles with Gurkhas on one side and Sikh King Maharaja Ranjit Singh on the other. Sansar Chand used to keep his neighboring Kings jailed, and this led to conspiracies against him. During a battle between the Sikhs and Katochs, the gates of the fort had been kept open for supplies."
"A British garrison occupied the fort until it was heavily damaged in an earthquake on the 4th of April, 1905."
Layout
"The fort is right next to Kangra town. 32°06′N 76°16′E﻿ / ﻿32.1°N 76.27°E﻿ / 32.1; 76.27 The fort stands on a steep rock in Purana Kangra (translates to Old Kangra) dominating the surrounding valley, built strategically at the ""sangam"" confluence (places where two rivers meet) of Banganga and Majhi rivers. It is said that Kangra belongs to one who owns the fort."
"Also near to old Kangra is the famous Jayanti Mata temple on a hill top. The Temple was built by the General of the Gorkha Army, Bada Kaji Amar Singh Thapa. Also close to entrance is a small museum which exhibits the history of Kangra fort."
Yusmarg or Yousmarg is a hill station in the western part of Kashmir Valley in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. It is situated 47 km south of Srinagar the capital of the state.
"Yusmarg in Kashmiri means The Meadow of Jesus.[2] It is believed by the natives that Jesus came to Kashmir and stayed at Yusmarg for some time.[3] It is an alpine valley covered with snow clad mountains and the meadows of Pine and Fir, It lies 13 km south of Charari Sharief a town of Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir. It is situated at the bank of Doodganga River which is a tributary of Jehlum River. It is located in the Pir Panjal peaks, a sub range of Himalaya. The Peaks are: the Sunset Peak and the Tatakooti Peak for which the expeditions lead from this hill station. It lies at an altitude of 2396 metres above sea level.[4]"
"A trek of 4 km leads to a small lake. Another 10 km trek leads to the frozen lake in Sang-e-Safed valley, which is mostly covered by ice even during the summer. Other tourist activities include horse riding, fishing, skiing during winter and photography.[5]"
"Yusmarg is easily from Srinagar or Srinagar Airport (SXR),[6] the capital of Jammu and Kashmir, 47 km drive in under 2 hours by car or bus leads through Charari Sharief town.[7] During winter the road gets sometimes closed due to snowfall and remains cut off from the kashmir Valley for weeks."
"Aru is a tourist spot in the Anantnag District of Jammu & Kashmir, India. It is located around 12 km from Pahalgam, 11 km upstream from the Lidder River. Noted for its scenic meadows, lakes and mountains, it is a base camp for trekking to the Kolhoi Glacier and Tarsar Lake. The village lies of the left bank of the Aru river, which is a tributary of the Lidder river.[3]"
The Aru valley is noted for its scenic meadows.[4][5] It is popular among the tourists for its peaceful environment and scenic beauty.
"The village is a base camp for trekkers to the Kolahoi Glacier, the Tarsar-Marsar lakes and the Katrinag valley. It is also a base for the treks to Lidderwat, the Vishansar-Kishansar lakes and Kangan.[6][1] The Kolahoi is the largest glacier in the Kashmir Valley, and is located near Mt. Kolahoi (5425m), the highest peak in the Valley. A number of hotels, restaurants and huts are available for boarding and lodging."
"There are about 20 alpine lakes, peaks and meadows around the Aru Valley. In the winters, when Aru receives heavy snowfall, skiing and heliskiing are practiced. Other popular tourist activities include fishing of trout in the Lidder river, trekking, hiking, horse riding, sightseeing and photography."
Overa-Aru Biosphere Reserve
"The Overa-Aru Biosphere Reserve is located 76 km from the state capital Srinagar. It has the status of a Wildlife sanctuary, and is spread over an area of 511 km2.[7] The altitude ranges from 3000–5425 m above the sea level. [citation needed] It is famous for several rare and endangered species.[4]"
"Aru, Jammu and Kashmir"
"Patnitop or Patni Top is a hilltop tourist location in Udhampur district in Jammu and Kashmir state of India on National Highway 1A 112 km (70 mi) from Jammu on the way from Udhampur to Srinagar. Situated on a plateau in the Shiwalik belt of the Himalayas, Patnitop sits at an altitude of 2,024 m (6,640 ft). The river Chenab flows in close proximity to this location.[1]"
Patnitop bypass road tunnel
"Snowfall and avalanche in winter at Patnitop obstructs National Highway 1A a few times every winter and causes long queues of vehicles - sometimes for days at length. India's longest road tunnel, the 9.2 km (6 mi) long Chenani-Nashri Tunnel or Patnitop Tunnel is being constructed starting from about 2 km (1 mi) from Chenani town south of Patnitop to Nashri village north of Patnitop to reduce the distance from Jammu to Srinagar and reduce traffic jams on NH-1A that occur due to snowfall and avalanche in winter at Patnitop.[2]"
"The Southern portal (end) of the tunnel is at 33°02′47″N 75°16′45″E﻿ / ﻿33.0463°N 75.2793°E﻿ / 33.0463; 75.2793 and the Northern portal (end) of the tunnel is at coordinates 33°07′43″N 75°17′34″E﻿ / ﻿33.1285°N 75.2928°E﻿ / 33.1285; 75.2928. When the tunnel is completed, the highway will no longer pass through Patnitop. The tunnel will reduce the length of the highway by 31 km (19 mi) and the highway will bypass Patnitop. The excavation of the tunnel has been completed and it is expected to be opened for traffic in 2016.[3]"
"The town of Virajpet also spelled as Virajapete is the second town of the district of Kodagu, in Karnataka. It is the main town of the Virajpet taluka, in the south of the district. The name is an abbreviation of Virarajendrapete after the former ruler of Kodagu, Virarajendra, and this latter form is still sometimes used."
"It is a small town of importance for the local coffee and spice crops. Nearby towns are Gonikoppal, Ammathi and Ponnampet. Virajpet is around 30 km away from Madikeri, the district headquarters and is about 250 km from Bangalore and 165 km from Mangalore. The only way to reach Virajpet is by road."
"Named after the former ruler of Kodagu, Virarajendra, Virajpet is an abbreviation for Virarajendrapete. The history of the destination is rich as it was ruled by various South Indian dynasties. The Gangas, the Kadambas, the Chalukyas, the Cholas, the Hoysalas, the Rastrakutas and the Vijaynagar Rayas also ruled the region. After the end of the ruling period, the region was segmented into three major towns namely, Madikeri, Virajpet and Somwarpet."
About Virajpet Tourism
"Virajpet town is situated in the Kodagu District of Karnataka. It is considered as the main town of Virajpet Taluka. Located at a distance of 30 km from the district headquarters Madikeri, it shares its geographical borders with the major towns of the district – Ammathi, Gonikoppal and Ponnampet."
"The town is famous for its huge plantations of local coffee and spice crops. Virajpet is the largest honey producer in Asia. Ayyappa Temple and Shiva Temple on the top of Malethirike Hill, a semi-spherical hill at Kakotuparambu, are the prominent attractions that attract thousands of devotees."
"Madikeri or Mercara Dasara is a prominent festival here, celebrated in the month of October. The celebration lasts for ten days along with cultural programmes depicting the victory of goddess of power over the asuras. A huge procession constituting singers, traditional dancers and music along with beautifully decorated ten tabloos is carried out. Virajpet can be visited in any season as the destination experiences pleasant climatic conditions throughout the year."
"As of the 2001[update] India census,[1] Virajpet had a population of 30000. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Virajpet has an average literacy rate of 81%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 83%, and female literacy is 78%. In Virajpet, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age. Most of the people are native Kodava speakers."
Places of worship
Getting there
"Virajpet is well connected with Mangalore, Mysore and Bangalore with road. Virajpet is also well connected by road with other places like Kannur, Thalassery, Iritty and Wayanad of neighbouring state Kerala."
Saputara is a hill station municipality in the Dang district of Gujarat state in India.
This hill station is on a plateau in the Dang forest area of Western Ghats (Sahyadri) range at an altitude of about 900 metres.
Saputara means the 'Abode of Serpents' and a snake image on the banks of the river Sarpaganga is worshiped by the Adivasis on Holi.
"Saputara has been developed as a planned hill resort with amenities like hotels, parks, swimming pools, boat club, theaters, ropeways and a museum. It is 172 kilometres (km) from Surat and 250 km from Mumbai. The Maharashtra state border is 4 km from Saputara. Excursions from Saputara can be made to the wild life sanctuary in the Mahal Bardipara forest, 60 km. and to Gira Waterfalls 52 km away."
Sight-seeing
Valley view from sunset point.
"Artist Village: See tribal artefacts on display. Simple accommodation is also available[1] Vansda National Park: Prior permission from the Chief Wildlife Warden, or Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) is needed before visiting the park Purna Wildlife Sanctuary: Situated at Mahal, 60 km north of Dangs Boating: on the Saputara Lake Sunrise Point: Offers the best view of Saputara and adjoining Malegoan. It is a walk of 1.5 km in the direction of Waghai. The name implies the point should only be visited at sunrise, but at any time of the day there is a panoramic view. Sunset Point : Has a scenic view of a of Dang Forest. The forest around Saputara is dotted with Adivasi (tribal) villages. The Ropeway: A ten-minute ride across the valley to Sunset Point ."
Gira falls
Travel information
"Saputara is 46 km from Saptashrungi (a site of Hindu pilgrimage), 172 km from Surat, 80 km from Nashik, 280 km from Mumbai, 112 km from Bilimora 420 km from Ahmedabad, 300  km from Vadodara, 589 km from Bhavnagar, 603 km from Rajkot."
Pictures
Saputara
"Kasauli (Hindi: कसौली) is a cantonment and town, located in Solan district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. The cantonment was established by the British Raj in 1842 as a Colonial hill station,[1] 77 km from Shimla, 65 km from Chandigarh, and 94 km from Ambala Cantt (Haryana), an important Railway Junction of North India and lies at a height of 1,927 metres (6,322 ft).[2] The town is a health resort, having an elevation of 1,900 metres above sea level.[3]"
Climate
Landmarks of Kasauli
"Central Research Institute, Kasauli."
"The Central Research Institute (CRI), originally the Pasteur Institute of India, was established at Kasauli in 1904 under its first director Sir David Semple, as an institute working in the fields of immunology and virological research.[4]"
Baptist Church
"Kasauli Baptist Church is a 1923 brick and wood building situated close to the Sadar Bazzar. According to The Indian Express it is ""considered a unique example of colonial architecture of the British era""."
Christ Church
"Christ Church was previously an Anglican church, inaugurated on 24 July 1853.[5]"
"Christ Church, Kasauli"
"Since 1970 it has been under the auspices of the Church of North India (CNI) in the diocese of Amritsar.[8] The church contains Spanish and Italian imported stained glass windows depicting Christ, Mary, Saint Barnabas and Saint Francis.[1]"
Gurudwara Shri Guru Nanak Ji
The Gurudwara (Sikh house of worship and hospitality) Shri Guru Nanak Ji is located in the Garkhal bazaar near Kasauli.[9] A further Sikh Gurudwara lies on the Kasauli-Mashobra (old Hindustan-Tibet) Road near the Air Force Radar Station.[citation needed]
Kasauli
"Sangla is a city in the Baspa Valley, also referred to as the Sangla valley, in the Kinnaur District of Himachal Pradesh, India, close to the Tibetan border."
"Sangla Valley or the Baspa Valley starts at Karcham and ends at Chitkul. Sangla is the major town in the valley with a petrol pump, Bank ATMs, Post Office, Restaurants, Bar, mid range hotels and shops. The valley is surrounded by forested slopes and offers views of the high mountains. Its location in the greater Himalayan range gives it a milder climate than the plains. Until 1989 outsiders could not enter the valley without a special permit from the Government of India, due to its strategic position on the Indo-Tibet/China border.[citation needed] The Baspa River flows in the Sangla Valley which is rich in apple orchards, apricot, Wall-nut, Cedar trees, and glacial streams with trout.[citation needed] The main villages in the valley villages include Chitkul, Rakcham, Batseri, Themgarang, Kamru, and Sapni. The nearby Baspa hydel-project has been completed in 2009. Besides the natural beauty of Great Himalaya Kamru Fort, Mata Devi Temple & Bearing Nag Temples are the main attractions of the Valley."
Sangla Valley is a part of Kinnaur and inhibited by Kinnauris. The main livelihood is agriculture while apples are a major cash crop here. The most significant achievement of this region which is worth laudable is that this area boasts of growing the world's best quality apples.[1] The weather along with the soil are both conducive to its exclusive and superior variety and quality. A part of the population also depends on tourism. The valley remains closed for six months during winter (from December till may) when the snowfall is heavy. The old Indo-Tibet road connects Sangla to The National Highway 22 at Karcham.
"The local people have a distinct culture and their own dialect, the Kinnauri language. Coordinates: 31°25′29″N 78°15′58″E﻿ / ﻿31.4248°N 78.2661°E﻿ / 31.4248; 78.2661"
"Budgam District (Urdu, ضلع بڈگام) is a district of the state of Jammu and Kashmir in India. Created in 1979 with its headquarters at Budgam, it is one of the districts in Kashmir with a majority Muslim Shiite population.[1]"
Doodhpathri pastures in Budgam district
"Budgam district came into existence in 1979, prior to which it was part of Srinagar district. In former times, Budgam was a part of Baramulla district, when Srinagar itself was a constituent of the Anantnag district. It was then known as tehsil Sri Pratap. Historical records suggests that Budgam was also referred to as Pargana Deesu. According to the well-known chronicler Khawaja Azam Demari, the area was also known as Deedmarbag. Budgam District borders the districts of Baramullah and Srinagar in the north, Pulwama in the south and Poonch in the south west. It consists of eight blocks: Beerwah, Nagam, Budgam, B.K.Pora, Khan Sahib, Khag, Narbal and Chadoora.[2] Each block consists of a number of panchayats.The district is subdivided into the six tehsils of Charari Sharief Tehsil, Beerwah Tehsil, Budgam Tehsil, Chadoora Tehsil, and Khansahib Tehsil, Khag Tehsil.[3]"
"According to the 2011 census Badgam district has a population of 735,753,[4] roughly equal to the nation of Guyana[5] or the US state of Alaska,[6] making it 494th in India (out of a total of 640).[4] The district has a population density of 537 inhabitants per square kilometre (1,390/sq mi) .[4] Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 21.18%.[4] Badgam has a sex ratio of 883 females for every 1000 males,[4] and a literacy rate of 57.98%.,[4] an increase from 39.54% in 2001.[citation needed] This is attributed to educational institutions in the district. There are 98 schools in Budgam, both private and public, 33 of which are Higher Secondary Schools.The main school which has contributed a lot in increasing the literacy rate of Budgam District since 1990 is R.M.P. Higher Secondary School Budgam Kashmir which is one of the Leading, Renowned and Reputed Higher Secondary School in the Kashmir Valley. RMP HSS Budgam has contributed a lot in increasing the literacy rate of Budgam district since 1990, and finally, it has achieved its mission by producing I.A.S. Officers, Doctors, Engineers, Journalists, Lawyers and Successful Entrepreneurs. The school is providing quality education from Nursery to 12th class having all streams Medical, Non-Medical, Arts and Commerce. RMP Higher Secondary School Budgam has shown 100% results since its establishment. It was established in 1990 by the renowned personality Mr. Noor Mohammad Wani (M.Sc Mathematics). He has contributed a lot in developing the budgam district since 1990. He has won so many International and National Awards. One of the Prestigious Award given by the then Chief Minister of J&K State, Jenab Ghulam Nabi Azad,in the year 2006 ""Gandhian Award 2006"" to Mr Noor Mohammad Wani at S.K.I.C.C. Srinagar (J&K). R.M.P. Higher Secondary School Budgam Kashmir is one of the Best School in J&K State. It has always shown outstanding performance. Maximum toppers are always from RMP HSS Budgam in J&K BOSE Exams. Budgam has one government degree college, near Paller Village.Budgam is of one of backward districts in kashmir till date because some political issues.Budgam is district is also known to its great Muslim preachers as:Baba-Hanif-Ud-Din,locally the graveyard is known as ""Baba sabin Ziyarath"" which is situated at the most beautiful mountain which ends up in Rathsun,a small cute village.The people of Rathsun are very kind,as from the old times.Magam is one of the main town in budgam right now,because it is approximately at centre of the district budgam."
Attractions
Valley in Budgam district
"Budgam contains the only airport in Kashmir valley. The district's main tourist attractions are Doodhpathri, Yusmarg, Tosamaidan, Nilnag, Khag Mt Tatakuti, and Pehjan.District Budgam offers many stunning locales and has tremendous tourism potential that has largely remained untapped so far. The attractive places that can be visited are Doodpather, Yousmarg, Tosmaidan, Nilnag and Khag. Kani shawl adomed the caesar's court and was looked upon by Mughals and later by Nawabs as mark of nobility. In 1776 Napoleon presented a Kani shawl to his wife Josephine and with that took off a new fashion trend in Europe The revered shrine of Sheikh Noor-ud-din Wali can also be found in the Charari Sharief Tehsil of Budgam district.Worlds biggest chinar is in District Budam (Chatergam)"
"Ambanad Hills (Malayalam: അമ്പനാട് ഹില്‍സ്) or Ambanad is a hill station in Kollam district of Kerala state, India. This is one among the few tea plantation areas in Kollam district.[1] Ambanad Hills is in Aryankavu panchayath, about 12 km away from Kazhuthurutty.[2]"
Ambanad Hills
"Dhar Kalan is a Town and tehsil located in the Pathankot district of Punjab India Dhar Kalan is hilly, ranging between 300–900 metres above sea level."
Towns
"Rudra Pratap Singh  pronunciation (help·info) (born 6 December 1985 in India[1]) is a left arm fast-medium bowler who has represented India in Test, One Day International and Twenty20 International cricket."
"He first came in contention during the under-19 World Cup in Bangladesh in 2004, when he took eight wickets for a very impressive average of 24.75. He later performed consistently in the Ranji Trophy for Uttar Pradesh and impressive performances saw him earn a place in the ODI side in 2005. In 2015, he has switched from UP to Gujarat in domestic circuit and currently representing Gujarat in Ranji Trophy."
"In his third one-day match, Singh got his first man of the match award as he played his part as India restricted Sri Lanka to a modest 196 all out. Swinging the ball on a batting wicket, he took 4 important wickets to rattle Sri Lanka. His bowling figures of 8.5 overs, 2 maidens, 35 runs and 4 wickets announced his arrival on the international stage. Singh was selected to make his Test debut in the 2nd Test against Pakistan in Faisalabad, Pakistan in January 2006. He won the man of the match award on his debut after taking 5 wickets in the match."
"Singh's 4 wicket-haul in the fourth match of the one-day series against Pakistan in 2006, helped India take an unassailable 3–1 lead in the series, and won him the man of the match award. India went on to win the series 4–1. In his first 11 ODI matches, he was awarded the man of the match award 3 times."
"Singh was favoured to Sreesanth for the 2006 ICC Champions Trophy due to his superior economy rate. However, he was unable to maintain his level of performance, and was dropped from the side."
In 2006 it was announced that Singh would be signing for English side Leicestershire as their second overseas signing. He was however unexpectedly recalled to the Indian side following their poor World Cup campaign and only made a handful of appearances.
"Singh was included in the Test squad for the tour to England and performed well, taking 5/59 at Lord's his first five-wicket-haul in Tests. In the one-day series he took seven wickets at 31.71 from five matches."
"Singh was then selected for India's one-day home series against Australia and Pakistan that followed, playing four games in each series and picking up a total of 11 wickets."
"He plays for the Kochi Tuskers in the Indian Premier League, after signing for them in 2011 from the Deccan Chargers. In his second season of the tournament, Singh was highly successful and he emerged as the highest wicket taker of the tournament, with 23 from 16 matches thereby winning the Purple Cap. Deccan Chargers emerged as winners of the tournament. His performance early in the tournament earned him a spot in the Indian squad for the 2009 ICC World Twenty20.[3] He is also the leading all time wicket taker in Indian Premier League with 52 wickets. He was bought for $600,000 by the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League Players Auction, 2012.[4] In the year 2013 in the IPL he was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore in the players auction 2013 for $400,000. In the 2014 IPL Auctions, he was unsold and had a base price of Rs 1 crore. After the England Series in 2011, he has never come back to international cricket."
"The greater flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus) is the most widespread species of the flamingo family. It is found in Africa, on the Indian subcontinent, in the Middle East and southern Europe."
"This is the largest species of flamingo, averaging 110–150 cm (43–59 in) tall and weighing 2–4 kg (4.4–8.8 lb). The largest male flamingos have been recorded at up to 187 cm (74 in) tall and 4.5 kg (9.9 lb).[2] It is closely related to the American flamingo and Chilean flamingo, with which it has sometimes been considered conspecific."
"Like all flamingos, this species lays a single chalky-white egg on a mud mound. Most of the plumage is pinkish white, but the wing coverts are red and the primary and secondary flight feathers are black. The bill is pink with a restricted black tip, and the legs are entirely pink. The call is a goose-like honking."
"Sub-adult flamingos are whitish grey and only attain the pink coloration several years into their adult life. The coloration comes from the carotenoid pigments in the organisms that live in their feeding grounds. Secretions of the uropygial gland also contain carotenoids. During the breeding season, greater flamingos increase the frequency of their spreading uropygial secretions over their feathers and thereby enhance their color. This cosmetic use of uropygial secretions has been described as applying ""make-up"".[3]"
"The bird resides in mudflats and shallow coastal lagoons with salt water. Using its feet, the bird stirs up the mud, then sucks water through its bill and filters out small shrimp, seeds, blue-green algae, microscopic organisms and mollusks. The greater flamingo feeds with its head down and its upper jaw is movable and not rigidly fixed to its skull.[4]"
Distribution
"It is found in parts of Africa, southern Asia (Bangladesh and coastal regions of Pakistan and India), the Middle East (Turkey, Israel, Lebanon) and southern Europe (including Spain, Albania, Macedonia, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal, Italy and the Camargue region of France). The most northern breeding spot is the Zwillbrocker Venn in Western Germany, close to the border with the Netherlands. In Gujarat, a state of India, flamingos can be observed at the Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary, Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary, Flamingo City and in the Thol Bird Sanctuary. They remain here during entire winter season.[5]"
Lifespan
"The average lifespan in captivity, according to Zoo Basel, is over 60 years."
Relationship with humans
The first recorded zoo hatch was in 1959 at Zoo Basel. In Zoo Basel's breeding program over 400 birds have been hatched with an average of between 20 and 27 per year since 2000.[6] The oldest known greater flamingo was a bird at the Adelaide Zoo in Australia who died aged at least 83 years old. The bird's exact age is not known; he was already a mature adult when he arrived in Adelaide in 1933. He was euthanized in January 2014 due to complications of old age.[7][8][9][10]
Greater flamingo
"This is a list of Asian countries and dependent territories by population, which normalized demographic projections."
Notes
"List of European countries by population present the list of countries, territories and dependences located in Europe."
Table
The Parihar or Parhar are a Rajput clan of northern India. They claim descent from the mythological Agnivansha dynasty.[1][2]
Parihar
Post or POST may refer to:
Mail
"Mail, the postal system, especially in Commonwealth of Nations countries Hotel post, a service offered by remote Swiss hotels for the carriage of mail to the nearest official post office Post, an entry in a blog or internet forum; see posting style"
Newspapers and magazines
"The Post, a list of newspapers Australasian Post, a defunct Australian weekly magazine Post Magazine, a British magazine first published in 1840"
Music
"Post (Björk album), 1995 studio album Post (Paul Kelly album), the first solo album Post Malone, Hip-Hop Artist Post Records, record label Post is an alternative name for a hanger (barbershop music)"
Organizations and companies
"LIU Post, one of the two campuses of Long Island University in the U.S. state of New York Post Foods, a packaged food company Post University, a university in the U.S. state of Connecticut Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK An Post, the Irish national postal service"
Places
"Post, Iran, a village in West Azerbaijan Province, Iran Post, Texas, the county seat of Garza County, USA Post, Oregon, a community at the geographic center of the state of Oregon, US"
Sports
"Post (basketball), area near the basket in basketball Post (route), route run by a receiver in American football Posting system, transfer system for professional baseball players moving from a Japanese team to a Major League Baseball team"
Technology
"Post (structural) (timber framing) Power-on self-test, start-up routines on electronic devices, typically on computers POST (HTTP), an HTTP request method .post, the internet top-level domain"
Other
"A job or occupation Military base, an assigned station or a guard post Military outpost Trading post Post (surname) Post, a way of riding a horse trot Post, a part of the post and lintel building system Part-of-speech tagging, the process of marking up a word in a text (corpus) as corresponding to a particular part of speech Peace Officer Standards and Training, state-level training program for American law-enforcement officers"
"The classification of Indian cities is a ranking system used by the Government of India to allocate House Rent Allowance (HRA) to public servants employed in different cities in India. HRA is also used by the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) to provide income tax exemptions. Cities are classified on the basis of their population, as recommended by the Sixth Central Pay Commission in 2008 and the Reserve Bank of India, respectively.[1]"
Population-based Classification
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) classifies centres into 6 tiers based on population.[10] The tables below shows the classification.
"Before the Sixth Central Pay Commission, the classification of cities in India was based on two parameters: Compensatory City Allowance (CCA), further divided into categories A-1, A, B-1 and B-2, and HRA, further divided into categories A-1, A, B-1, B-2 and C."
Current classification
"Under the recommendation of the Sixth Central Pay Commission, the CCA classification was abolished in 2008. The earlier HRA classification of cities was changed from A-1 to X, A, B-1 and B-2 to Y and C and unclassified cities to Z.[2][3][4] X, Y and Z are more commonly known as Tier-1, Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities respectively."
"On the basis of the census 2011, two cities — Pune and Ahmedabad — have been upgraded to 'X' class from 'Y' and 21 cities to 'Y' from 'Z' for the purpose of HRA effective from 1 April 2014.[2][5][6]"
"HRA Classification City X Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune Y Agra, Ajmer, Aligarh, Allahabad, Amravati, Amritsar, Asansol, Aurangabad, Bareilly, Belgaum, Bhavnagar, Bhiwandi, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bikaner, Bokaro Steel City, Chandigarh, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Dehradun, Dhanbad, Durg-Bhilai Nagar, Durgapur, Erode, Faridabad, Firozabad, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Gulbarga, Guntur, Gurgaon, Guwahati, Gwalior, Hubli-Dharwad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jalandhar, Jammu, Jamnagar, Jamshedpur, Jhansi, Jodhpur, Kannur, Kanpur, Kakinada, Kochi, Kottayam, Kolhapur, Kollam, Kota, Kozhikode, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Malappuram, Malegaon, Mangalore, Meerut, Moradabad, Mysore, Nagpur, Nashik, Nellore, Noida, Patna, Pondicherry, Raipur, Rajkot, Rajahmundry, Ranchi, Rourkela, Salem, Sangli, Siliguri, Solapur, Srinagar, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Tiruchirappalli, Tiruppur, Tirupati, Ujjain, Vadodara, Varanasi, Vasai-Virar City, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Warangal Z All other cities"
Historical Classification
"The cities were classified as follows before the Sixth Central Pay Commission's recommendations were followed in 2008.[7] This classification was initially based on the recommendations of the Fifth Central Pay Commission of India in 1997.[7] Chennai, New Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai were classified as A-1 cities.[8] City statuses were later revised based on the results of the 2001 Census of India.[7] Hyderabad was accorded the A1 status on 31 August 2007, and Bangalore on 21 September 2007.[8] CCA classification was abolished in 2008."
CCA classification HRA classification City A-1 A-1[8] Bangalore A-1 A-1 Chennai A-1 A-1 Delhi A-1 A-1[9] Hyderabad A-1 A-1 Kolkata A-1 A-1 Mumbai A A Ahmedabad A A Pune A A Kanpur A A Indore A A Jaipur A A Vadodara A A Surat A A Nagpur A A Lucknow A A Patna A A Bhopal A A Nashik A A Aurangabad A A Gandhinagar B-1 B-1 Madurai[7] B-1 B-1 Aligarh B-1 B-1 Kochi B-1 B-1 Visakhapatnam B-1 B-1 Coimbatore[7] B-1 B-1 Vijayawada B-1 B-1 Jabalpur B-1 B-1 Rajkot B-1 B-1 Solapur B-1 B-1 Anand B-1 B-1 Ludhiana B-1 B-1 Agra B-1 B-1 Meerut B-1 B-2 Thiruvananthapuram B-1 B-2 Kozhikode B-1 B-2 Faridabad B-1 B-2 Varanasi B-1 B-2 Jamshedpur B-1 B-2 Allahabad B-1 B-2 Amritsar B-1 C Dhanbad B-2 B-2 Gorakhpur B-2 B-2 Hubli-Dharwad B-2 B-2 Bhavnagar B-2 B-2 Raipur B-2 B-2 Mysore B-2 B-2 Thrissur B-2 B-2 Mangalore B-2 B-2 Guntur B-2 B-2 Bhubaneshwar B-2 B-2 Amravati B-2 B-2 Srinagar B-2 B-2 Bhilai B-2 B-2 Warangal B-2 B-2 Kakinada B-2 B-2 Nellore B-2 B-2 Ranchi B-2 B-2 Guwahati B-2 B-2 Gwalior B-2 B-2 Chandigarh B-2 B-2 Patiala B-2 B-2 Jodhpur B-2 B-2 Tiruchirapalli B-2 B-2 Pondicherry B-2 B-2 Salem B-2 C Dehradun B-2 C Hajipur B-2 C Kollam B-2 C Sangli B-2 C Jamnagar B-2 C Jammu B-2 C Kurnool B-2 C Roorkee B-2 C Vellore B-2 C Kannur B-2 C Etawah
"India is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by geographical area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people. India consists of twenty-nine states and seven union territories.[1] It is a home to 17.5 percent of the world's population.[2]"
Urban areas
"The first population census in British India was conducted in 1872. Since 1951, a census has been carried out every 10 years.[3] The census in India is carried out by the Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner under the Ministry of Home Affairs, and is one of the largest administrative tasks conducted by a federal government.[4]"
"The latest population figures are based on data from the 2011 census of India.[5] India has 641,000 inhabited villages and 72.2 percent of the total population reside in these rural areas.[5] Of them 145,000 villages have population size of 500–999 persons; 130,000 villages have population size of 1000–1999 and 128,000 villages have population size of 200–499. There are 3,961 villages that have a population of 10,000 persons or more.[2] India's 27.8 percent urban population lives in more than 5,100 towns and over 380 urban agglomerations.[6] In the decade of 1991–2001, migration to major cities caused rapid increase in urban population.[7][8] The number of Indians living in urban areas has grown by 31.2% between 1991 and 2001.[9] Yet, in 2001, over 70% lived in rural areas.[10][11] According to the 2001 census, there were 27 million-plus cities in India,[9] with Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, and Chennai being the largest."
"There are 54 urban agglomerations in India with a population of 1 million or more as of 2011 against 35 in 2001.[12] About 43 percent of the urban population of India lives in these cities.[13] Guwahati is the only million-plus urban agglomeration in the whole of North-eastern India and the second largest in terms of area in the Eastern and North-Eartern India after Kolkata.[citation needed] Kerala has added six new million-plus agglomerations in addition to Kochi, the only such area in 2001.[12]"
Map
This article lists the most populous cities in the world defined according to a concept of city proper. A city proper is a locality defined according to legal or political boundaries and an administratively recognised urban status that is usually characterised by some form of local government.[1][2][3] Cities proper and their boundaries and population data may not include suburbs.[4]
"World Urbanization Prospects, a UN publication, defines population of a city proper as ""the population living within the administrative boundaries of a city or controlled directly from the city by a single authority."" The book continues to say that ""city proper as defined by administrative boundaries may not include suburban areas where an important proportion of the population working or studying in the city lives.""[4] This definition does not give an accurate picture of the urban area or metropolitan area of cities. Using this strictly administrative definition, many cities will be included on this list that are smaller than their urban area. However, many Chinese cities included govern territories that extend well beyond the traditional ""city proper"" into suburban and rural areas.[5]"
"Rank City Image Population Definition Total area (km²) Population density (/km²) Country 1 Shanghai 7007242568000000000♠24,256,800[6] Municipality 7003634050000000000♠6,340.5[7] 3,826  China 2 Karachi 7007235000000000000♠23,500,000[8] Metropolitan Corporation[9] 7003352700000000000♠3,527 6,663  Pakistan 3 Beijing 7007215160000000000♠21,516,000[10] Municipality 7004164105400000000♠16,410.54[11] 1,311  China 4 Delhi 7007163498310000000♠16,349,831[12] Union territory 7003148300000000000♠1,483 11,320  India 5 Lagos 7007160603030000000♠16,060,303[lower-alpha 1] Metropolitan City 7003117128000000000♠1,171.28[14] 13,712  Nigeria 6 Tianjin 7007152000000000000♠15,200,000[15] Municipality 7004117600000000000♠11,760[16] 1,293  China 7 Istanbul 7007141604670000000♠14,160,467[17] Metropolitan Municipality[18] 7003546100000000000♠5,461[19] 2,593  Turkey 8 Tokyo 7007135137340000000♠13,513,734[20] Metropolis 7003219100000000000♠2,191[20] 6,168  Japan 9 Guangzhou 7007130805000000000♠13,080,500[21] Sub-provincial City 7003743440000000000♠7,434.4[22] 1,759  China 10 Mumbai 7007124423730000000♠12,442,373[23] Municipal Corporation[24] 7002603400000000000♠603.4 20,680  India 11 Moscow 7007121975960000000♠12,197,596[25] Federal City[26][27] 7003251012000000000♠2,510.12[28] 4,859  Russia 12 São Paulo 7007118958930000000♠11,895,893[29] Municipality City[30] 7003152111000000000♠1,521.11 7,821  Brazil 13 Shenzhen 7007104674000000000♠10,467,400[31] Sub-provincial City 7003199164000000000♠1,991.64[32] 5,256  China 14 Jakarta 7007100753100000000♠10,075,310[33] Capital Region – Five Kota[34] 7002664120000000000♠664.12 15,171  Indonesia 15 Lahore 7007100520000000000♠10,052,000[35] City District 7003177200000000000♠1,772[36] 5,673  Pakistan 16 Seoul 7006999578400000000♠9,995,784[37] Special City 7002605210000000000♠605.21[38] 17,134  South Korea 17 Kinshasa 7006973500000000000♠9,735,000[39][40][full citation needed] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[41] 7003111762000099999♠1,117.62[42] 8,710  Democratic Republic of the Congo 18 Cairo 7006927844100000000♠9,278,441[43] Governorate[44] 7003308510000000000♠3,085.1[45] 3,008  Egypt 19 Mexico City 7006887472400000000♠8,874,724[46] Federal District 7003148549000000000♠1,485.49[47] 5,974  Mexico 20 Lima 7006869338700000000♠8,693,387[48] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[49] 7003267230000000000♠2,672.3 3,253  Peru 21 London 7006867371300000000♠8,673,713[50] Greater London Authority[51] 7003157215000000000♠1,572.15 5,431  United Kingdom 22 New York City 7006855040500000000♠8,550,405[52] City[53] 7002783840000000000♠783.84 10,908  United States 23 Bengaluru 7006844367500000000♠8,443,675[54] Municipal Corporation 7002741000000000000♠741.00 11,876  India 24 Bangkok 7006828092500000000♠8,280,925[55] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[56] 7003156874000000000♠1,568.74 5,279  Thailand 25 Ho Chi Minh City 7006822440000000000♠8,224,400[57] Metropolitan Municipality-Province 7003209550000000000♠2,095.5[57] 3,925  Vietnam 26 Dongguan 7006822020700000000♠8,220,207[58] Prefecture-level City 7003246940000000000♠2,469.4 3,329  China 27 Chongqing 7006818980000000000♠8,189,800[lower-alpha 2] Central Chongqing[lower-alpha 3] Municipality 7003547300000000000♠5,473[lower-alpha 4] 1,496  China 28 Nanjing 7006818782800000000♠8,187,828[63] Sub-provincial City 7003471385000000000♠4,713.85 1,737  China 29 Tehran 7006815405100000000♠8,154,051[64] City Municipality[65] 7002431580000000000♠431.58[66] 18,893  Iran 30 Shenyang 7006810617100000000♠8,106,171[67] Sub-provincial City 7004129420000000000♠12,942 626  China 31 Bogotá 7006777684500000000♠7,776,845[68] Capital District[69] 7002859110000000000♠859.11[70][71] 9,052  Colombia 32 Ningbo 7006760568900000000♠7,605,689[72] Sub-provincial city 7003981623000000000♠9,816.23 775  China 33 Hong Kong 7006729860000000000♠7,298,600[73] Special Administrative Region[74] 7003110443000000000♠1,104.43[75] 6,608  China 34 Hanoi 7006723270000000000♠7,232,700[57] Metropolitan Municipality-Province 7003332450000000000♠3,324.5[57] 2,176  Vietnam 35 Baghdad 7006718088900000000♠7,180,889[76] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[77] 7003455500000000000♠4,555[78] 1,576  Iraq 36 Changsha 7006704411800000000♠7,044,118[79] Prefecture-level City[80] 7004118190000000000♠11,819 596  China 37 Dhaka 7006697010500000000♠6,970,105[81] City Corporation 7002300000000000000♠300[82] 56,567  Bangladesh 38 Wuhan 7006978539200000000♠9,785,392[83] Sub-provincial City[84] 7003132761000099999♠1,327.61[85] 5,187  China 39 Hyderabad 7006673179000000000♠6,731,790[86] Municipal Corporation 7002621480000000000♠621.48[87] 10,832  India 40 Chennai 7006672700000000000♠6,727,000[88] Municipal Corporation[89] 7002426510000000000♠426.51[90] 15,772  India 41 Rio de Janeiro 7006642992300000000♠6,429,923[91] Municipality City 7003120027000000000♠1,200.27[92] 5,357  Brazil 42 Faisalabad 7006641874500000000♠6,418,745[93] City District 7002214000000000000♠214 29,907  Pakistan 43 Foshan 7006615162200000000♠6,151,622[94][95] Prefecture-level City 7003203462000000000♠2,034.62[96] 3,023  China 44 Zunyi 7006612700900000000♠6,127,009[citation needed] Prefecture-level city 7004307630000000000♠30,763 199  China 45 Santiago 7006574371900000000♠5,743,719[97] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[98] 7003124990000000000♠1,249.9 4,595  Chile 46 Riyadh 7006567662100000000♠5,676,621[99] Municipality City[100] 7003123398000000000♠1,233.98[101] 4,600  Saudi Arabia 47 Ahmedabad 7006557058500000000♠5,570,585[102] Municipal Corporation 7002475000000000000♠475 11,728  India 48 Singapore 7006553500000000000♠5,535,000[103] City State 7002719100000000000♠719.1[103] 7,697  Singapore 49 Shantou 7006539102800000000♠5,391,028[104] Prefecture-level City 7003206442000000000♠2,064.42 2,611  China 50 Yangon 7006521400000000000♠5,214,000[105] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[106] 7002598750000000000♠598.75[107] 8,708  Myanmar 51 Saint Petersburg 7006519169000000000♠5,191,690[108] Federal City 7003143900000000000♠1,439[28] 3,608  Russia 52 Abidjan 7006476500000000000♠4,765,000[39] Department/City District 7003211900000000000♠2,119[109] 2,249  Ivory Coast 53 Chengdu 7006474192900000000♠4,741,929[110] Sub-provincial City 7002421000000000000♠421[110] 11,263  China 54 Alexandria 7006461662500000000♠4,616,625[111] Governorate 7003230000000000000♠2,300[112][113] 2,007  Egypt 55 Kolkata 7006449669400000000♠4,496,694[114] Municipal Corporation 7002185000000000000♠185 24,306  India 56 Ankara 7006447080000000000♠4,470,800[115] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[116] 7003191092000000000♠1,910.92[117][118] 2,340  Turkey 57 Xi'an 7006446783700000000♠4,467,837[119] Sub-provincial City[120] 7002832170000000000♠832.17 5,369  China 58 Surat 7006446200200000000♠4,462,002[23] Municipal Corporation 7002326515000000000♠326.515[121] 13,666  India 59 Johannesburg 7006443482700000000♠4,434,827[122] Municipality City 7003164498000000000♠1,644.98 2,696  South Africa 60 Dar es Salaam 7006436454100000000♠4,364,541[123] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[124] 7003163112000000000♠1,631.12[125] 2,676  Tanzania 61 Suzhou 7006432706600000000♠4,327,066[126] Prefecture-level City[127] 7003164972000000000♠1,649.72[128] 2,623  China 62 Harbin 7006428070100000000♠4,280,701[129][130] Sub-provincial City 7003171820000000000♠1,718.2[131] 2,491  China 63 Giza 7006423998800000000♠4,239,988[132] Governorate[133] 7002289080000000000♠289.08 14,667  Egypt 64 Zhengzhou 7006412208700000000♠4,122,087[134] Sub-provincial City[135] 7003101566000000000♠1,015.66 4,059  China 65 New Taipei City 7006395492900000000♠3,954,929[136] Special Municipality 7003205257000000000♠2,052.57[137] 1,927  Taiwan 66 Los Angeles 7006388430700000000♠3,884,307[138] Municipality City[139] 7003121385000099999♠1,213.85 3,200  United States 67 Cape Town 7006374002600000000♠3,740,026[122] Municipality City 7003244497000099999♠2,444.97 1,530  South Africa 68 Yokohama 7006372616700000000♠3,726,167[20] Designated City 7002437490000000000♠437.49 8,517  Japan 69 Busan 7006359010100000000♠3,590,101[140] Metropolitan City 7002766120000000000♠766.12[140] 4,686  South Korea 70 Hangzhou 7006356039100000000♠3,560,391[141] Sub-provincial City 7002728190000000000♠728.19[141] 4,889  China 71 Xiamen 7006353134700000000♠3,531,347[142] Sub-provincial City 7003169900000000000♠1,699 2,078  China 72 Quanzhou 7006352084600000000♠3,520,846[143] Prefecture-level City 7003106200000000000♠1,062 3,315  China 73 Berlin 7006351742400000000♠3,517,424[144] City State 7002891750000000000♠891.75 3,944  Germany 74 Rawalpindi 7006351000000000000♠3,510,000[citation needed] City District 7002127000000000000♠127 27,638  Pakistan 75 Jeddah 7006345625900000000♠3,456,259[145] Municipality City 7003176500000000000♠1,765[146] 1,958  Saudi Arabia 76 Durban 7006344236100000000♠3,442,361[122] Municipality City 7003229131000000000♠2,291.31 1,502  South Africa 77 Hyderabad 7006342947100000000♠3,429,471[147] City District 7002114000000000000♠114 30,083  Pakistan 78 Kabul 7006341410000000000♠3,414,100[148] Municipality City 7002275000000000000♠275 12,415  Afghanistan 79 Casablanca 7006335981800000000♠3,359,818[149] Prefecture 7002387000000000000♠387 8,682  Morocco 80 Hefei 7006335207600000000♠3,352,076[150] Prefecture-level City[151] 7002838520000000000♠838.52 3,998  China 81 Pyongyang 7006325538800000000♠3,255,388[152] Direct-controlled Municipality 7003211300000000000♠2,113[153] 1,541  North Korea 82 Madrid 7006320724700000000♠3,207,247[154] Municipality City 7002605770000000000♠605.77 5,294  Spain 83 Peshawar 7006320100000000000♠3,201,000[citation needed] Municipal Corporation 7002125000000000000♠125 25,608  Pakistan 84 Ekurhuleni 7006317847000000000♠3,178,470[122] Municipality City 7003197531000000000♠1,975.31 1,609  South Africa 85 Nairobi 7006313836900000000♠3,138,369[155] Capital District 7002694900000000000♠694.9 4,829  Kenya 86 Zhongshan 7006312127500000000♠3,121,275[156] Prefecture-level City 7003178367000000000♠1,783.67 1,750  China 87 Pune 7006311543100000000♠3,115,431[102] Municipal Corporation 7002450690000000000♠450.69 6,913  India 88 Addis Ababa 7006310367300000000♠3,103,673[157] Metropolitan Municipality-Province[158] 7002526990000000000♠526.99 5,889  Ethiopia 89 Jaipur 7006307335000000000♠3,073,350[102] Municipal Corporation 7002485000000000000♠485 6,337  India 90 Buenos Aires 7006305430000000000♠3,054,300[159] Federal District 7002203000000000000♠203 15,046  Argentina 91 Wenzhou 7006303943900000000♠3,039,439[160] Prefecture-level City[161] 7003118788000000000♠1,187.88 2,559  China"
List of cities proper by population
"Ajit Bhalchandra Agarkar  pronunciation (help·info) (born 4 December 1977) is a former Indian international cricketer, who had represented India in more than 200 international matches. He played for the Delhi Daredevils and the Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL and captained Mumbai to its 40th Ranji Trophy title in 2013. He made his Test and ODI debuts in 1998 and T20I debut in 2006. He is the third highest wicket-taker for India in ODIs and has represented India in the 1999 Cricket World Cup, 2007 Cricket World Cup but Ajit Agarkar didn't feature in any of the world cup matches in the 2003 Cricket World Cup where India reached into the finals."
Agarkar was raised by his grandparents at Shivaji Park where many a great cricketer have practised and went on to play for India. He attended Shardashram Vidyamandir school and was later coached by Ramakant Achrekar. He is an alumnus of Ruparel College in Matunga. He married Fatima Ghadially. They have a son named Raj. He lives with his family at Narayan Pujari Nagar on Worli Seaface in South Mumbai[1]
Bowling style
He has a relatively short figure as compared to his other fast bowling counterparts. But he could still bowl at speeds more than 90 mph (~145 km/hr) owing to his athletic body and a good run up speed. He has had a knack to bowl the reverse swing deliveries when the ball gets old.
"Sudeep Tyagi (born 17 September 1989) is an Indian international cricketer. He is a right arm fast-medium bowler and a right-handed lower order batsman. In first class cricket, he plays for Uttar Pradesh. In the Indian Premier League, he represented Chennai Super Kings. Tyagi is arguably the leading contender for the next bowling spot in the national squad, consistently performing ahead of his peers, whenever fit."
"Tyagi first represented the senior Uttar Pradesh team at the 2007-08 Ranji Trophy competition, making his debut against Orissa in a game which was highlighted by a double-century from Suresh Raina. It was in this debut match that he took a six-wicket haul, helping his team to an innings victory - a bowling analysis which remains his first-class best. It took until the third match of the competition until he scored his first two first-class runs with the bat. Tyagi finished his stellar debut Ranji season with 41 wickets, the highest in the country. Later in the same month, he played one match in the Duleep Trophy competition, and in February he played in two games in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. While Tyagi missed most of the 2008-09 domestic season due to stress fracture, he re-emerged in 2009 IPL with some great spells. In July 2009, Tyagi travelled with the Indian Emerging Players squad to tour Australia, where the team played against their peers from Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. Tyagi emerged by far the best bowler on show during the tournament, grabbing 14 wickets in 6 games at 18.21 a piece. Tyagi's strong upper body is built along the lines of his UP colleague Praveen Kumar but he is a few yards quicker than Kumar is. Tyagi and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who was equally impressive in his debut domestic season in 2008-2009 and has attracted quite a bit of attention, along with R.P. Singh and Praveen Kumar, form a very impressive pace bowling quartet for Uttar Pradesh."
"He made his ODI debut in the fifth and final match of India's home series against Sri Lanka in December 2009 at the Feroz Shah Kotla. He took one wicket as India bowled first, but his debut was cut short when the umpires ended the match midway through the Sri Lankan innings after deeming the pitch to be unsafe."
List of cities in Palestinian Authority areas
List of cities in Oman
List of cities in Russia
List of cities in Qatar
"This is a list of lists on the cities of present-day nations, states and dependencies. Countries are listed in bold under their respective pages, whereas territories and dependencies are not. Disputed and unrecognized countries are italicized."
List of cities in Denmark
List of cities in Egypt
List of cities in Gambia
List of cities in Germany
List of cities in South Africa
List of cities in Sweden
List of cities in Hungary
List of cities in Israel
List of cities in Japan
List of cities in Kuwait
List of cities in Malaysia
List of cities in Mexico
List of cities in New Zealand
List of cities in North Korea
List of cities in Thailand
List of cities in Turkey
List of cities in Ukraine
List of cities in the United States
List of cities in the United Kingdom
List of cities in Venezuela
List of cities in Argentina
List of cities in Australia
List of cities in Bahrain
List of cities in Bulgaria
List of cities in Chile
List of cities in Cyprus
Additional performance records
"8 by 1993, Ang Rita[21] 9 by 1995, Ang Rita[22] 10 by 1996, Ang Rita[23] 11 by 2000, Apa Sherpa[24]"
Disabled or diseased summiters
Oldest summiters
This table shows the progression of the record for oldest male summiter.
This table shows the progression of the record for oldest female summiter.
Mount Everest from Gokyo Ri
Youngest Summiters
"Due to some variations in record keeping, there may be some variation in the examples"
Youngest female
examples only
First …
Nepali records
Everest base camp records
Death statistics
Notes
Tashi and Nungshi were the first twins to summit Mount Everest together
"This article lists different records related to Mount Everest. One of the most commonly sought after records is a ""summit"", to reach the highest elevation point on Mount Everest."
Highest number of times to reach the summit of Mount Everest
Non-Nepali or Tibetan
First to summit a certain number of times
List of Mount Everest records
A list of films produced by the Ollywood film industry based in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack in the 1980s:
Screenshot of Wikipedia's portal showing the different language editions sorted by article count
This is a list of the different language editions of Wikipedia; as of November 2016 there are 295 Wikipedias of which 284 are active.
Wikipedia edition codes
"Each Wikipedia has a code, which is used as a subdomain below wikipedia.org. Interlanguage links are sorted by that code. The codes represent the language codes defined by ISO 639-1 and ISO 639-3, and the decision of which language code to use is usually determined by the IETF language tag policy. Wikipedias also vary by how thinly they slice dialects and variants; for example, the English Wikipedia includes most modern varieties of English (American English, Indian English, South African English, etc.), but does not include other related languages such as Scots, or Anglo-Saxon, all of which have separate Wikipedias. The Spanish Wikipedia includes both Peninsular Castilian and Latin American Spanish; Malay Wikipedia includes a large number of Malay languages; and so on."
Differences between the ISO mappings and Wikipedia codes include:
List of Wikipedias
"Additionally, Wikipedias vary in wikt:orthography at times. Chinese Wikipedia automatically translates from modern Mandarin Chinese into four standard forms: Mainland China and Singapore in simplified Chinese characters, and Taiwan and Hong Kong / Macau in traditional Chinese characters. Belarussian, however, has a separate Wikipedia for the 'normative' orthography (be) and Taraškievica (be-tarask)."
"An approximation to the number of active users is given in powers of ten (see common logarithm): so ""5"" means at least 10,000, ""4"" means at least 1000, ""3"" means at least 100, and so on."
Notes
"The ""Total"" column refers to the number of pages in all namespaces, including both articles (the official article count of each wiki) and non-articles (user pages, images, talk pages, ""project"" pages, categories, and templates). ""Active Users"" are registered users who have made at least one edit in the last thirty days. ""Images"" is the number of locally uploaded files. Note that some large Wikipedias don't use local images and rely on Commons completely, so the value 0 is not a glitch. The ""Depth"" column (Edits/Articles × Non-Articles/Articles × [1−Stub-ratio]) is a rough indicator of a Wikipedia’s quality, showing how frequently its articles are updated. It does not refer to academic quality."
Grand total
"Articles Total Edits Admins Users Active Users Images 42,171,683 156,308,895 2,276,054,422 3,906 64,755,407 277,778 2,428,201"
"Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,314,403 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Русский Svenska Tiếng Việt More than 250,000 articles: العربية Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català Čeština Euskara فارسی 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Português Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Українська 中文 More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Български Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά English (simple form) Esperanto Galego עברית Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias"
"Today's featured picture Nuremberg is a census-designated place in Schuylkill and Luzerne counties, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 434 at the 2010 census. It occupies a total area of 0.58 square miles (1.5 km2). Photograph: Jakec Recently featured: Thor Gravel pit Theodor Heuss Bridge (Mainz-Wiesbaden)"
"Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies."
"Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus"
"From today's featured article Richard Dannatt (born 23 December 1950) is a retired senior British Army officer who served as the Constable of the Tower of London from August 2009 to July 2016. He was commissioned into the Green Howards in 1971, and his first tour of duty was in Belfast as a platoon commander. During his second tour of duty, Dannatt was awarded the Military Cross. He commanded 4th Armoured Brigade in 1994 during its peace operations in Bosnia. In 1999 he simultaneously commanded 3rd Mechanised Division and the British forces in Kosovo. After a brief tour in Bosnia, he was appointed Assistant Chief of the General Staff. Following the attacks of 11 September 2001, Dannatt became involved in planning for subsequent operations in the Middle East. As Commander of the Allied Rapid Reaction Corps from 2003, he led the planning for their deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. He was appointed Chief of the General Staff in 2006, succeeding Sir Mike Jackson. Calling for improved pay and conditions for soldiers, less military focus on Iraq, and more on Afghanistan, Dannatt faced controversy over his outspokenness. (Full article...) Recently featured: Andrew Sledd Lieutenant Kijé (Prokofiev) Strepsirrhini Did you know... Ceramic pillow in the form of a reclining girl, Jin dynasty ... that Cizhou ware was popular pottery not used by the Chinese Imperial court, and often made as ceramic pillows (example pictured)? ... that the Advent hymn ""O Heiland, reiß die Himmel auf"" was written against a backdrop of the Thirty Years' War, the plague, and witch trials? ... that Sadhan Gupta, elected from Calcutta South East in a 1953 by-poll, was the first blind parliamentarian in independent India? ... that Glass Buttes is a mountain group in central Oregon named for the large deposits of obsidian found on their slopes? ... that civil engineer Ernest William Moir invented the first medical airlock? ... that young Sloggett's vlei rats have several adaptations that help them cope with severe cold in winter? ... that in 2010, the association footballer Neil Alexander came on as a substitute for Queen of the South in a friendly against his own team, Rangers? ... that HMS Tartar's Prize had oversized cannons, a leaky hull, and a smoky galley, and sank in the Mediterranean when her timbers gave way? In the news Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Syrian government forces retake control of the besieged parts of Aleppo. More than 30 people are killed by government security forces as protests break out across the Democratic Republic of the Congo following the end of Joseph Kabila's term in office. An explosion at a fireworks market in Tultepec, Mexico, kills at least 32 people and injures more than 50 others. A suspected terrorist attack kills 12 people and injures 56 others, as a stolen truck is rammed into a Christmas market (pictured) in Berlin, Germany. Researchers measure a spectral line of antihydrogen, a type of antimatter, finding it to be identical to that of hydrogen, as predicted by the Standard Model. Ongoing: Battle of Mosul Recent deaths: Franca Sozzani Corno Michèle Morgan Zsa Zsa Gabor On this day... December 23: Night of the Radishes in Oaxaca City, Mexico; The Emperor's Birthday in Japan; Festivus Coelacanth (preserved specimen) 583 – Yohl Ik'nal acceded to the throne of the Maya city-state of Palenque. 1793 – French Revolution: The Royalist counterrevolutionary army was decisively defeated in the Battle of Savenay, although fighting continued in the War in the Vendée for years afterward. 1916 – First World War: Allied forces gained a strategic victory in the Battle of Magdhaba, located in the Sinai Peninsula. 1938 – A South African fisherman discovered the first living specimen of a coelacanth (pictured), long believed to be extinct. 1986 – Piloted by Dick Rutan and Jeana Yeager, the Rutan Voyager became the first aircraft to fly around the world without stopping or refueling, landing at Edwards Air Force Base in California after a nine-day trip. More anniversaries: December 22 December 23 December 24"
"You see, any user can change any entry, and if enough other users agree with them, it becomes true. ... If only the entire body of human knowledge worked this way. And it can, thanks to tonight's word: Wikiality. Now, folks, I'm no fan of reality, and I'm no fan of encyclopedias. I've said it before. Who is Britannica to tell me that George Washington had slaves? If I want to say he didn't, that's my right. And now, thanks to Wikipedia, it's also a fact. We should apply these principles to all information. All we need to do is convince a majority of people that some factoid is true. ... What we're doing is bringing democracy to knowledge.[16]"
"According to Stephen Colbert, together ""we can all create a reality that we all can agree on; the reality that we just agreed on."" During the segment, he joked: ""I love Wikipedia... any site that's got a longer entry on truthiness than on Lutherans has its priorities straight."" Colbert also used the segment to satirize the more general issue of whether the repetition of statements in the media leads people to believe they are true. The piece was introduced with the tagline ""The Revolution Will Not Be Verified"", referencing the lack of objective verification seen in some articles."
"In a July 2006 episode of the satirical comedy The Colbert Report, Stephen Colbert announced the neologism ""wikiality,"" a portmanteau of the words Wiki and reality, for his segment ""The Wørd"". Colbert defined wikiality as ""truth by consensus"" (rather than fact), modeled after the approval-by-consensus format of Wikipedia. He ironically praised Wikipedia for following his philosophy of truthiness, in which intuition and consensus is a better reflection of reality than fact:"
Colbert suggested that viewers change the elephant page to state that the number of African elephants has tripled in the last six months.[17] The suggestion resulted in numerous incorrect changes to Wikipedia articles related to elephants and Africa. Wikipedia administrators subsequently restricted edits to the pages by anonymous and newly created user accounts.
In art
"The Wikipedia Monument, located in Słubice, Poland, is a statue honoring Wikipedia contributors."
"In the post credit sequence song dedicated to Rajinikanth, in Hindi movie Chennai Express, the protagonist suggests people read about him on Wikipedia.[20][21][22]"
In feature films
"Wikipedia is mentioned in the feature film Bandslam (2009): Sa5m (Vanessa Hudgens) tells Will Burton (Gaelan Connell), that one of the main characters, Charlotte Barnes (Aly Michalka), has her own Wikipedia page. Burton then reads the Charlotte Barnes on Wikipedia article."
In literature
"Missing Links and Secret Histories: A Selection of Wikipedia Entries from Across the Known Multiverse (2013), edited by L. Timmel Duchamp, is a collection of speculative fiction short stories in the form of fictitious Wikipedia entries.[23]"
In music
"Ukrainian composer Andriy Bondarenko wrote a musical piece ""Anthem of Wikipedia"". It was performed in a concert devoted to 15th anniversary of Wikipedia in Kyiv.[24][25]"
In postal items
"On January 14, 2011, Israel Postal Company chose to commemorate Wikipedia's 10th anniversary by issuing a special postmark and a souvenir leaf. These were the world's first Wikipedia-related postal items. As is customary on Wikipedia, the souvenir leaf, the postmark, and the text on the back of the souvenir leaf were created by a collaboration of volunteers. The design of the postmark was based on the work of ""MT0"", a Wikipedia editor."
In radio broadcasts
In television episodes
"References to Wikipedia in culture have increased as more people learn about and use the online encyclopedia project. Many parody Wikipedia's openness, with characters vandalising or modifying articles. Still others feature characters using the references as a source, or positively comparing a character's intelligence to Wikipedia. Also, the encyclopedia many times is not used as an encyclopedia at all, but instead serves more as a character trait or even as a game. Wikipedia has also become culturally significant with many individuals seeing the presence of a Wikipedia entry as a status symbol.[1]"
In web comics
Roadkill Bill comic mocking Wikipedia.
Citations of Wikipedia in culture
Inaccuracies on Wikipedia as portrayed in culture
References and footnotes
Cases
"Pandit Krushna Chandra Kar (1907–1995) is a renowned Indian poet and literary critic who has written both in the Odia and in English. He has authored books on Odia literature and inspired other writers like Bidyut Prabha Devi and Chakhi Khuntia. He received the Sahitya Academy Award for his contribution to Odia literature in the year 1971 to 1972. He spent most of his life in Cuttack, Odisha."
Career
"Lt.Pandit Krushna Chandra Kar wrote biographies, fictional works, and children's books both before and after Indian independence. He also authored an Odia to English dictionary called the ""Taruna Sabdakosh"" and an English to Odia dictionary called the ""New Method English Dictionary"", which has been in use at the Stanford University Libraries."
"His better known Odia books include the ""Ramayana"" and ""Shakuntala"". He also authored collections of poetry, including ""Rutu Samhara"" and ""Hansa Dutam""."
"He was arguably best known for children's literature and wrote ""Pari Raija"", ""Kuhuka Raija"", ""Panchatantra"", and ""Adi Jugara Galpa Mala"", among other works. He wrote biographies of a number of historical personalities such as ""Kapila Deva"""
"One of his famous English books was ""The Maharaja : As I Knew Him""."
"He received the Orissa Sahitya Academy Award, 1971-72 Sahitya Akademi Award."
Books
KABYA
Rutusanhara Khandadhara Hansaduta Pilanka rutusanhara
GATHA
Gathayani
KABITA (POETRY)
Kabita sanchayani
NIBANDHA
Gadya sanchayani
NATAKA AND LOKANATYA (DRAMA)
"Karnajuna (bangala sanlapara anubada,gitamana ra anubadaka rachana) ABHIDHANA(DICTIONARY) New method English–Oriya dictionary Taruna sabdakosa"
UCHANGA SAHITYA
Bilwamangala Swadhinatara kahani Adijugara galpa Bagni biswanatha Swami bhairabananda Marusambhaba Utkal patana Hagila dinara smruti(atmacharita) Mari amara
KISHORA SAHITYA (ADULT’S LITERATURE)
Mahabharata katha(part-1) Mahabharata katha(part-2) Upanishada katha(part-1) Upanishada katha(part-2) Purana prabha (part-3) Purana prabha(part-4) Sadhana and sishi(part-1) Sadhana and sidhi(part-2) Sadhana and sidhi(part-3) Bana pahadara sathi Akasha rahasya Jataka kahani
SISU SAHITYA (CHILDREN'S LITERATURE)
Laba kusa Parsuram Purana kahani(part-1) Purana kahani(part-2) Abhimanyu Janamejayav Rushi katha(part-1) Rushi katha(part-2) Sati Sunaraija Pakhiraja Asap katha Utkalara baraputra (part-1) Utkalara baraputra (part-2)
AMAR CHARITA
Bhaktakabi madhusudana Kabibara radhanatha Samanta Chandra sekhara Sudhala deba Purushotam deba Mukunda deba Kulabrudha madhusudhana Utkalamani gopabandhu Karmajogi gourishankar Sudramuni sarala Purana prabha(part-1) Purana prabha(part-2) Sejugara gapa(panchatantra) Sejugara chatra Panchatantra galpa(part-1) Panchatantra galpa(part-2) Panchatantra galpa(part-3) Bharata gouraba(part-1) Bharata gouraba(part-2) Nana desara upakatha(part-1) Nana desara upakatha(part-2)
SISU UPANYASA (CHILDRENS’ NOVEL) SERIES OF SUNARAIJA
suna padua suna bauda suna chadhei suna panjuri suna baisi suna changudi
SERIES OF KUHUKA RAIJA
kuhuka ghoda kuhuka kothi kuhuka janha kuhuka deepa kuhuka rani kuhuka mala
SERIES OF PARIMAHALA
saraga pari golapi pari shagara pari jharana pari sapana pari jochana pari
SADHABA GHARA KATHA
Sadhaba budha Sadhaba budhi Sadhaba pua Sadhaba jhia Sadhaba bohu Sadhaba nati
Bibliography
Rämayana in Ordisi pata painting:- Taruṇa śabdakosha:- Makers of Modern Orissa:- Hajilā dinara smr̥ti:- Svāmī Bhairabānanda :- New Method English to oriya dictionary:- http://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/530816
The Intercity Express is the express-train service in India which connects major railway junctions and state capitals.
Features
"The trains are less expensive than other express trains, and usually reach their destinations within 5–6 hours. They usually complete a round trip in a day, returning to the origin station at night and using only a single rake. Generally, they have only sitting accommodations and a pantry car. Intercity Express trains run daily, except:"
Train names
"The following trains are intercity-express trains, but have different names:"
"Intercity Express routes are (round-trip, unless noted):"
"Tārakāsura (Sanskrit: तारकासुर) or Tāraka (Sanskrit: तारक) was a powerful asura and the son of Vajranaka in Hindu belief. Tarakasur repeatedly defeated the gods until heaven was on the verge of collapse. Yet he had a clever boon that he could be defeated only by the son of Shiva, who was a complete yogi, given to severe austerities, far from any thoughts of marriage. Eventually, Kamadeva, the god of love, was sent in advance and created an untimely spring around Shiva and broke his dhyana with arrow of lust. On awakening, Shiva's fiery gaze burnt Kamdeva to ashes, and the disembodied spirit of love was disseminated across the universe. However, Parvati who was re-incarnation of Sati, Shiva's first wife and also incarnation of Aadi Shakti who was once a part of Shiva, in their Ardhanarishvara form. Eventually their son Kartikeya was born. Kartikeya killed Tarakasur and his brothers Simhamukhan and Surapadman who eventually became the mounts of Parvati and Kartikeya."
"This story is the basis for the epic Kumarasambhava (lit., birth of Kartikeya) by Kalidasa[1] (c. 4th century AD). The theme of the vaporised love spirit roaming free in the universe was adopted by the Vaishnavas (c. 16th century) who believe it was reincarnated in Vasudeva.[2] This is also the theme of the poem madanbhasmer par (মদনভস্মের পর) by Rabindranath Tagore."
"Premium trains[1] are fast Express rail service by Indian Railways which is operated in busiest routes.[2] These trains have dynamic fare structure[3] which means ticket price varies[4] according to booking rate and seat availability[5] . Priority of Premium trains are above Superfast and Mail/Express trains[6] like Shatabdi Express, Duronto Express and Rajdhani Express."
Overview
"The Premium AC special train from Mumbai to Delhi was the first train which was launched on 24 December 2013 during festive season of Christmas and New Year.[3] The train's maiden journey earned 48 percent more than the Mumbai — Delhi Rajdhani that ran during the same period.[7] Encouraged by the successful run of the Mumbai-Delhi premium train,[5] In Railway budget 2014, Sadananda Gowda, the railway minister announced 5 more such premium AC-special trains on busy routes.[8]"
Vaishnodevi Temple at Rourkela is a replica of the original Temple of Vaishnodevi of Jammu (Trikuta Hills) and is situated on the top of the Durgapur Hill[1] facing towards Rourkela Steel Plant. Bhairabanath Temple[2] is situated near Vaishodevi Temple on the hill.
"In 2007, the Temple of Goddess Durga, located on the top of the hill, was opened for visitors. During Durga Puja, in the spring and autumn seasons, the Navaratri Festival is celebrated, hundreds of Hindu worshippers come here."
Vaishnodevi Temple
"The Sankh River flows across Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha states in India. The river flows for 240 kilometres (150 mi) before it meets the Koel River in Odisha."
"The river starts 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) above sea level in Lupungpat village in Gumla district in Jharkhand and flows 67.5 kilometres (41.9 mi) in the state before entering Chhattisgarh. It runs a distance of about 50 kilometres (31 mi) in Chhattisgarh and enters Jharkhand again to flow for another 78 kilometres (48 mi). The river finally enters Odisha and travels another 45 kilometres (28 mi) before merging with the Koel.[1] The South Koel enters Orissa and joins the Sankh River at Vedavyas near Rourkela from where it is called the Brahmani (see 22°14′45″N 84°47′02″E﻿ / ﻿22.2458800°N 84.7837500°E﻿ / 22.2458800; 84.7837500).[2]"
Sadni Falls
The 60-metre (200 ft) high Sadni Falls on the Sankh River at the edge of the Ranchi plateau is an example of scarp falls or knick line falls.[3]
"Shivnath River is the biggest tributary of Mahanadi river, which it joins in Khargahni in Bilaspur district in Chhattisgarh, India. It has a total course of 290 km .Shivnath could also mean a lord shiva for the Hindu religion ."
Sources
Shivnath river originates from Panabaras hill 624 m above from sea level in Ambagarh Chowki division of Rajnandgaon District of Chhattisgarh .
The river flows in north-east direction for 300 km from the source(Panabaras hill) and joins Mahanadi River near the town Shivrinarayan. [1][2][3] [4]
Mand River is a tributary of Mahanadi and joins it in Chandrapur 28 km before Orissa border and before the river reaches Hirakud dam. The river rises at an elevation of about 686 m in Surguja district of Chhattisgarh and the total length of the river is 241 km. The Mand River receives the drainage of the southern part of the Mainpat Plateau.[1] It drains an area in the range of 5200 km2[2]
"Bemetara (Hindi: बेमेतरा) is a city of the state of Chhattisgarh, India."
Demographics
"As of the[update] 2011 census Bemetara is a city governed by the Bemetara Municipality, Bemetara district, in the state of Chhattisgarh. The total population in Bemetara city/town is 28,536 as per the survey of census during 2011 by Indian Government. Bemetara City Google Map and location"
"There are 5,800 House Holds in Bemetara. There are 14,280 males (50%); There are 14,256 females (50%). Scheduled Cast are 2,398 (8%) Total Scheduled Tribe are 884 (3% ). Literates in the city/town are 20,012 (70%). There are 8,524 total Illiterates (30% ). Literates are 20,012 (70% ) and total Illiterates 8,524 (30%) in Bemetara. Bemetara Workers are 10,923 (38%). ** 9,718 are regular Workers and 1,205 are Irregular Workers. There are total of 17,613 Non Workers (62%) in Bemetara."
In devarbija village 15 km from Bemetara Sita devi Temple is situated.temple is very ancient.it is called that during vanvasa Lord Shri Ram and Mata Sita stayed here for few times...
Somnath Temple
Somnath temple is situated at the bank of Shivnad and Kharun river 26 km from bemetara...this place is very panoramic...
One of the largest and most famous temples in the district.
Attractions around Bemetara
Chitrakot Falls in Chhattisgarh
Laxman Temple at Sirpur
"Prithvi (Sanskrit: pṛthvī ""Earth"") is a tactical surface-to-surface short-range ballistic missile (SRBM) developed by DRDO of India under the Integrated Guided Missile Development Program (IGMDP). It is deployed by India's Strategic Forces Command."
Development and history
"The Government of India launched the Integrated Guided Missile Development Program in 1983 to achieve self-sufficiency in the development and production of wide range of ballistic missiles, surface-to-air missiles etc. Prithvi was the first missile to be developed under the program. DRDO attempted to build a surface-to-air missile under Project Devil.[1] Variants make use of either liquid or both liquid and solid fuels. Developed as a battlefield missile, it could carry a nuclear warhead in its role as a tactical nuclear weapon."
Variants
"The Prithvi missile project encompassed developing three variants for use by the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy. The initial project framework of the Integrated Guided Missile Development Program outlines the variants in the following manner.[2]"
"Prithvi I (SS-150) - Army version (150 km (93 mi) range with a payload of 1,000 kg (2,200 lb)) Prithvi II (SS-250) - Air Force version (350 km (220 mi)[3] range with a payload of 500 kg (1,100 lb)) Prithvi III (SS-350) - Naval version (350 km (220 mi) range with a payload of 1,000 kg (2,200 lb))"
Description
"Agni and Prithvi missile models in DRDO, Balasore"
"The missile was inducted into India's Strategic Forces Command in 2003, and it was the first missile developed under the IGMDP.[4] After a failed test on 24 September 2010,[5] two more missiles aimed at two different targets were launched on 22 December 2010 and were successful.[6] According to news sources the range is now increased to 350 km (220 mi) and the payload capacity now ranges between 500 – 1000 kg.[7][8][9]"
"Western Electricity Supply Company of Odisha or WESCO was incorporated as a Public Limited Company of Government of Odisha on November 19, 1997 to carry out the distribution and retail supply business of electricity in the entire Western Odisha. Western Electricity Supply Company of Odisha got the Certificate of Commencement of Business on 30th December 1997 and started functioning as a subsidiary of Grid Corporation of Odisha (GRIDCO) , a Government of Odisha Power Utility, from November 26, 1998 under Distribution and Retail Supply License. Subsequently, the Company obtained its own license for Retail Supply from Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC) with effect from April 1999. After privatisation of Distribution business under power sector reform process ,WESCO became a subsidiary of BSES Ltd , the premier Mumbai based Power Utility with acquisition 51 % majority share-holding.The authorised and paid up capital of the Company is 48.65 crores . The licensed area of operation of the Company is 48,000 sq. km and covers nine revenue districts of Western Orissa namely, Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Bargarh, Sonepur, Bolangir, Nuapada and Kalahandi.Our Corporate Office at Burla. [1]"
"Colaba ([koˈlaːbaː]) is a part of the city of Mumbai, India, and also a Lok Sabha constituency. During Portuguese rule in the 16th century, the island was known as Candil. After the British took over the island in the late 17th century, it was known as Colio.[2]"
"Seven islands of Bombay, before reclamation"
"The name Colaba, comes from Kolabhat, a word in the language of Kolis, the indigenous inhabitants of the islands, before the arrival of Portuguese.[3] The area that is now Colaba was originally a region consisting of two islands: Colaba and Little Colaba (or Old Woman's Island). The island of Colaba was one of the Seven islands of Bombay ruled by the Portuguese."
"The Portuguese had acquired these lands from the Sultanate of Cambay by the Treaty of Bassein (1534). The group of islands was given by Portugal to Charles II of England as dowry when he married Catherine of Braganza. The cession of Bombay and dependencies was strongly resented by Portuguese officials in Goa and Bombay, who resisted transfer of possession for several years, while the English representatives were confined to the island of Anjediva while negotiations continued. Angered by the back-tracking, Charles II leased these lands to the British East India Company for a nominal annual rent. Gerald Aungier, second Governor of Bombay (1672), and the president of the English settlement of Surat, took possession of Colaba and Old Woman's Island on behalf of the Company in 1675."
"Old Bombay, 1909"
Ambitious reclamation plans from 1912 have been only partly realised.
"Colaba Chapel, Bombay (Clutterbuck, 1889, p. 173)[4]"
"In 1743, British Colaba was leased to Richard Broughton at Rs. 200 yearly, and the lease was renewed in 1764.[5] By 1796, Colaba had become a cantonment. Colaba was known for the variety of fishes – the bombil (Bombay duck), rawas, halwa, turtles, crabs, prawns and lobsters."
"The Bombay City Improvement Trust reclaimed around 90,000 square yards (75,000 m2) on the western shore of Colaba. Eminent citizens of Mumbai, such as Sir Pherozeshah Mehta, opposed the work, fearing that the reclamation would depress prices of land. However, the reclamation work continued and was completed in 1905. There was no fall in the land prices. In 1906, a seafront road with a raised sea-side promenade was completed, and named as ""Cuffe Parade"" after T. W. Cuffe of the Trust."
A 180° panoramic view of Colaba. Click to enlarge
Terrorist attack in November 2008
"On 26 November 2008, terrorist strikes occurred at various places in Colaba, notably the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower, Leopold Café and Mumbai Chabad House. The attacks resulted in over 100 deaths and significant damages."
"Aishwarya Rutuparna Pradhan (formerly Ratikanta Pradhan) (born 12 November 1983) is India's first openly transgender civil servant, working in the Odisha Financial Services (OFS) as a commercial tax officer.[1][2][3] Pradhan successfully joined the OFS in 2010 as Ratikanta Pradhan. She legally changed her gender identity in 2015, after the Indian Supreme Court's 2014 ruling, recognising the transgender community as the third gender.[3][2]"
Childhood and education
"Pradhan was born in Katibageri village in Kandhmal district of Odisha; her father was a retired government officer, Balila Pradhan.[3] According to Pradhan, she realised her gender identity was female, not male, when she was in class six.[4] Pradhan has said that she was ridiculed throughout school, sexually abused in college, and her abilities questioned when she joined the civil services. However, since she has proven herself and established her trans identity, she says, ""now things have become relatively easier"".[4]"
Pradhan is an alum of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication.[5] She also has a post graduate degree in public administration.[6]
"Gorakhpur Mumbai Jan Sadharan Express is a weekly train which runs as train number 12597 from Gorakhpur Junction to Mumbai CST and as train number 12598 from Mumbai CST to Gorakhpur Junction. This train is operated by North Eastern Railway zone of Indian Railways. It runs at an average speed of 60 km/h in both directions, covering in 27 hours."
Coaches
This train has fifteen General Second class coaches and two luggage cars. Coaches can be increased or decreased to meet demand.
Routeing
"This train runs via Basti, Gonda, Lucknow, Kanpur Central, Jhansi, Itarsi, Bhusaval, Nasik, Kalyan to reach Mumbai CST and vice versa."
"Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station (station code NZM) is one of the five main railway stations of Delhi, India from which trains originate. Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station connects all the major cities and was developed to ease congestion on New Delhi railway station which is located approximately 7 km to the North. It originates and terminates various Rajdhani Expresses going towards south India such as Bangalore, Secundarabad, Chennai and Trivandrum."
"Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station is managed by Northern Railway zone of Indian Railways. It is adjacent to Delhi's two important arteries, the Ring Road and Mathura Road, and Sarai Kale Khan Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT)."
Hazrat Nizamuddin platformboard
Platform 8 & 9 under construction at Hazrat Nizamuddin
Connections
"Nearest metro stations : Indraprastha, Jangpura, Lajpat Nagar, INA Nearest Bus Terminal : ISBT Sarai Kale Khan"
Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station
"There have been eight sovereigns of Vatican City State since its establishment by the Lateran Treaty of 1929. The position as head of state of Vatican City is an ex officio role of the pope. The current sovereign, since his election on 13 March 2013, is Pope Francis."
Background
"Like the bishops of many other cities in the disintegrating Roman Empire, the bishops of Rome came to exercise duties of civil administration in place of the ineffective imperial government. They became in practice the civil rulers, subordinate to the emperor, of the area around Rome referred to as the duchy of Rome.[1] The Donation of Pepin in 756 made the popes for the first time rulers in their own right of the territories that came to be known as the Papal States. These lands were taken by Napoleon but recovered at the successive Congress of Vienna. They were definitively lost when, on 20 September 1870, Victor Emmanuel II's troops captured Rome, which was later declared the new capital of a unified Kingdom of Italy. Pope Pius IX and his successors disputed the legitimacy of the annexation of the Papal States and, refusing to put themselves under the protection of the new civil authorities, remained ""prisoners in the Vatican"". Having lost secular power, the popes focused on spiritual issues.[2]"
"This dispute, referred to as the Roman Question, continued until the Italian Government and the Holy See signed on 11 February 1929 the Lateran Treaty, which created the sovereign Vatican City State, with the pope as its ruler, making him ex officio the elected monarch, with absolute powers, of the newly created city-state."
List of sovereigns
See also
References
The 12533/12534 Pushpak Express is a Superfast express train belonging to Indian Railways that run between Lucknow Junction and Mumbai in India. It operates as train number 12533 from Lucknow Junction to Mumbai CST and as train number 12534 in the reverse direction.
Service
The 12533/12534 Pushpak Express covers the distance of 1426 kilometres in 24 hours 20 mins (58.60 km/hr) and 1428 km in 24 hours 20 mins as 12534 Pushpak Express (58.68 km/hr).
"As the average speed of the train is more than 55 km/hr, its fare includes a Superfast surcharge."
Coaches
"The 12533/12534 Pushpak Express presently has 1 AC 1st Class cum AC 2 tier, 1 AC 2 tier, 2 AC 3 tier, 13 Sleeper Class, 6 General Unreserved coaches & 1 Pantry Car."
12534 Pushpak Express - AC 3 tier
12534 Pushpak Express
"The Grand Trunk Express, (commonly called G.T. or G.T. Express), (Train Number: 12615/12616) is a daily superfast express train on Indian Railways, running between Delhi Sarai Rohilla and Chennai Central. It is a historic and one of the oldest trains operated by the Indian Railways."
"Introduced by Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway, with its headquarters in erstwhile Madras (now Chennai) in 1929,[1] to run between Peshawar, then part of British India and capital of North West Frontier province in present-day Pakistan and Mangalore, then part of Madras province, almost the entire length of the country and beyond. The historic route passed through New Delhi and Madras, (now Chennai). Later sometime the route got shortened and ran between Lahore(now in Pakistan) and Mettupalayam, near Coimbatore, connecting Ooty and Coonoor, thus making the GT Express probably one of the longest running trains in the country at that time.[2]"
"The Peshawar to Mangalore run took about 104 hrs in all, later the end points were changed and to this day it provides a daily service between New Delhi, the capital of India, and the capital of Tamil Nadu, Chennai. It covers the distance of 2,186 kilometres (1,358 mi) in exactly 35 hrs 35 mins., with 38 halts (inclusive of the terminals). The train is still one of the longest train routes in India."
Schedule and Service
"The train passes through the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi."
Rake and Coach
GT Express near NDLS
"The normal composition of the GT is 24 coaches (cars) of the following classes (""AC"" indicates air conditioned coach):"
Location of Chhattisgarh
Chhattisgarh – state in central India. The state was formed on 1 November 2000 by partitioning 16 Chhattisgarhi-speaking southeastern districts of Madhya Pradesh.
Rankings (amongst India's states)
Geography of Chhattisgarh
"Chhattisgarh is: an Indian state Population of Chhattisgarh: 27,928,015 Area of Chhattisgarh: 135,194.5 km2 (52,198.9 sq mi) Atlas of Chhattisgarh"
Capital of Chhattisgarh: Raipur Cities of Chhattisgarh
Murali Vijay (born 1 April 1984) is an Indian international cricketer and India's opening batsman in Test Cricket. He plays as a right-handed opening batsman. He also represents Tamil Nadu in first-class cricket and is captain of the Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League (IPL).
Early career
"Vijay started playing cricket at the age of 17.[1] He first played club cricket in Chennai representing Alwarpet in 2003. He was then selected in the Tamil Nadu Under-22 squad for the 2004-05 CK Nayudu Trophy. Tamil Nadu Under-22 won the tournament, but, opening the innings, Vijay averaged just 26.45 in 6 matches.[2] He continued to play club cricket in 2005, before getting selected again in the Tamil Nadu Under-22 squad for the 2005-06 CK Nayudu Trophy. He failed to impress once again, averaging 26.50 in 3 matches.[3]"
"Despite his below-average performances in club cricket and Under-22 tournaments, Vijay was selected in the Tamil Nadu squad for the Ranji One-day Trophy in February 2006. He made his senior cricket debut in Tamil Nadu's last group fixture of the tournament, against Karnataka on 16 February, and scored 17 in that match.[4] He scored 38 in the quarterfinal against Railways who won the match by one run.[5]"
"Vijay rose to prominence during the 2006-07 Ranji Trophy, his debut first-class season, in which he finished as the third highest run-getter of the tournament, only behind Karnataka's Robin Uthappa and Bengal's Manoj Tiwary. At the start of this tournament, he made his first-class debut against Delhi and scored a fifty in his debut innings.[6] He accumulated a total of 628 runs at an average of more than 52, including two hundreds and one fifty.[7] He continued his good form in the 2006-07 Ranji One-day Trophy by scoring 277 runs in 7 matches at an average of 39.57 and a high-score of 112.[8]"
"Vijay played in all seven matches of Tamil Nadu in the 2007-08 Ranji Trophy and scored 582 runs at an average of 58.2 with two hundreds including a high-score of 230* against Saurashtra.[9] After the conclusion of Ranji Trophy, he was selected in the South Zone squad for 2007-08 Duleep Trophy. He batted at 3 in the first match against North Zone and scored a duck and 39.[10] In the second game against East Zone, batting at 3 in the first innings, he scored 46, and registered another duck in the second innings while opening the batting.[11] In the Vijay Hazare Trophy (earlier called Ranji One-day Trophy) that followed, Vijay played seven matches in which he opened the innings thrice and batted at 3 on four occasions. He found success batting at 3, making back-to-back hundreds against Hyderabad and Andhra.[12][13]"
Test career
"Vijay made his Test debut against Australia in the Fourth and final Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, in Nagpur, in November 2008. He was selected for the match after Gautam Gambhir received a one-Test ban for elbowing Shane Watson in the Third Test of the same series in Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi.[17][18] Vijay was participating in a Ranji trophy match at the time, and made his Test debut on the final day of that match.[19]"
"Of Vijay's technique, former Australian captain Allan Border said ""His defensive shots are so assured. And he looks comfortable of both front and back foot. And when he attacks, he doesn't go hard at the deliveries. I can see why this young man is playing"".[20]"
"Vijay partnered Virender Sehwag, and they got India off to a solid start in both innings. Vijay made 33 and 41, contributing to opening stands of 98 and 116. During Australia's first innings, Vijay caused the first wicket to fall, running out Matthew Hayden with a direct hit from mid on. Hayden was attempting a quick single. He then ran out Michael Hussey when fielding at silly point. Hussey was unaware that Vijay had intercepted the ball at close range and instinctively took a step out of his crease in anticipation of a run, by which time Vijay threw down the stumps. In the second innings, he caught Brett Lee at bat pad from the bowling of Harbhajan Singh to complete his first catch.[21]"
"Following his performance in his debut Test, Vijay was selected for the Indian ODI squad for the first three matches against the touring England team. He did not get to play, and was dropped after the first three matches upon the return of senior batsman Sachin Tendulkar from a break.[22]"
"In December 2009, Vijay was given another opportunity in the Test team when Gambhir withdrew from the Third and final Test against Sri Lanka at Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai in order to attend his sister's wedding.[23] Vijay took two catches at bat pad from Harbhajan in Sri Lanka's first innings. When India replied, he put on 221 for the first wicket with Sehwag, but was out for 87 in sight of his maiden Test century. The Indians went on to complete an innings victory, and become the number 1 Test team.[24][25]"
"Vijay was taken on the tour of Bangladesh in January 2010 as the reserve batsman, and he was called into the team after V. V. S. Laxman injured a finger in the First Test. Vijay played in the Second Test in Mirpur in Laxman's No. 5 position, scoring 30. In the same match, No. 3 batsman Rahul Dravid was injured after being hit under the jaw by a bouncer, so Vijay then played in Dravid's position in the two-Test home series against South Africa.[26][27][28]"
ODI career
Vijay debuted in ODIs against South Africa in the third and final one dayer on 27 Feb 2010. He scored a brisk 25 runs off 16 balls.[30]
International T20 career
Vijay was selected for 2010 ICC World Twenty20. He fared poorly in India's disastrous campaign averaging just below 15 and failing to provide good starts in all the matches.
IPL career
"Murali played for IPL franchise from his home town Chennai Super Kings till the sixth edition and represented Delhi Daredevils in IPL7. He was one of the key performers for Chennai in the 3rd edition of IPL in 2010 when Chennai were crowned champions. His first century for Chennai Super Kings was in the third season of the IPL where he scored 127 runs of 56 balls against the Rajasthan Royals. He was awarded the Man of the Match. In the same year, Vijay had prolific run in the Champions League T20 held in South Africa. Vijay was the top scorer of the tournament with 294 runs. He was instrumental in Chennai winning the cup."
Test cricket
ODI cricket
Man of the Series awards
Man of the Match awards
"Kannur Lokesh Rahul (born 18 April 1992), commonly known as KL Rahul and also as Lokesh Rahul, is an Indian cricketer who plays for India national cricket team in international cricket, and Karnataka in domestic cricket. A right-handed batsman and occasional wicket-keeper, Rahul played for India at the 2010 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup."
"Rahul made his debut in the 2010-11 season, playing first-class cricket for Karnataka. He made his debut in Indian Premier League in 2013, playing for Royal Challengers Bangalore.[6]"
"After an excellent domestic season in 2014, Rahul was picked in the Indian Test squad for the Australian tour. He made his Test debut in the Boxing Day Test beginning on 26 December 2014 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. He replaced Rohit Sharma and was handed over the Test cap by MS Dhoni. He came to bat at number 6 and made 3 runs in the first innings. In the second innings he played at number 3 and made only 1 run. He retained his place for the fourth Test played at Sydney Cricket Ground. He opened the innings with Murali Vijay and made 110 runs, his maiden international hundred."
"He was picked in the Indian squad for the four-test tour against West Indies in 2016. Rahul played in the second Test at Jamaica and scored a strokeful 158, his highest Test score. In the process, he became the first Indian opener to score a century in his debut Test in the West Indies.[12] In the first match of the T20I series in the United States, he scored a century off 46 balls in a losing cause, the second fastest ever and third by an Indian.[13][14]"
IPL career
"Rahul was a part of the IPL team Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2013. In 2014, he was bought by the Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs. 1 crore at the auction. In the 2016 season he returned to the Royal Challengers Bangalore."
"Rahul was born on 18 April 1992 to Dr. K. N. Lokesh and Rajeshwari at Mangalore. He was raised in Mangalore and moved to Bangalore at the age of 18 to concentrate on his cricket career. Rahul's father Dr. K. N. Lokesh is a professor and Head of Department of Civil Engineering at the NITK, Surathkal, and mother Rajeshwari is a history professor at Mangalore University.[15][16]"
"Rahul's father, who was a big fan of Sunil Gavaskar, wanted to name him after Gavaskar's son, but mistook the name of Gavaskar's son ""Rohan"" as ""Rahul"".[17][16] Rahul's father said in an interview that Rahul started playing cricket at the age of 11.[15]"
Test centuries
One Day International centuries
Twenty20 International centuries
Kedar Mahadav Jadhav (born 26 March 1985) is an Indian cricketer. Jadhav is a right-handed middle-order batsman and occasional off-break bowler. He plays for Maharashtra in Indian domestic cricket. He played in the Indian Premier League with the Delhi Daredevils in 2010 before being picked by the Kochi Tuskers Kerala for 2011.[1] Jadhav has also represented India A and West Zone cricket team.
He made his One Day International debut for India against Sri Lanka on 16 November 2014 and scored 20 off 24 balls before he was out stumped.[2] He made his Twenty20 International debut for India against Zimbabwe on 17 July 2015.[3]
"Jadhav, who was initially in the Royal Challengers Bangalore development squad, was signed by Delhi Daredevils in 2010. He made immediate impact as he scored a 29-ball 50 (5 fours and 2 sixes) for Delhi Daredevils against the Royal Challengers Bangalore in his debut IPL match. He won the Man of the match award for this innings. For the next season, he was signed by the new franchise Kochi Tuskers Kerala, for whom he played only 6 matches that year. In 2013, he was signed up by the Delhi Daredevils and played a few matches that season but was not successful. He was not retained by Delhi in the 2014 IPL auction but was bought back by Delhi for ₹ 20 million."
He was named in Indian squad for Bangladesh tour in June 2014 but did not get a game.
International centuries
ODI centuries
ODI Man of the Match awards
T20I Man of the Match awards
International Awards
Test Cricket
Man of the Match awards
"Cheteshwar Arvind Pujara (born 25 January 1988 in Rajkot, Gujarat) is an Indian cricketer."
He is a right-handed batsman who plays for Saurashtra in domestic cricket. Pujara made his first-class debut for Saurashtra in December 2005 and made his Test debut at Bangalore in October 2010.[2]
"He was a part of the India A team which toured England in the 2010 summers, and was the highest scorer of the tour. In October 2011, the BCCI awarded him a C-grade national contract. Known to have a sound technique and the temperament required to play long innings, he was one of the contenders for a spot in the Indian middle order after the retirement of Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman.[3]"
"His Test comeback came against New Zealand in August 2012, scoring a century. He made his first double hundred against England at Ahmedabad in November 2012[4] and followed up with another double hundred against Australia in March 2013, both the times steering India to victory and becoming man of the match.[5]"
"In the 2012 NKP Salve Challenger Trophy, he was the highest scorer with two centuries and one half century. He became one of the fastest batsman to reach 1000 runs in Test cricket in just 11 matches and his 18th Test Innings. He won the Emerging Cricketer of the Year 2013.[6]"
"Cheteshwar Pujara was born in Rajkot. His father, Arvind Shivlal Pujara, was a Ranji Trophy player for Saurashtra. His father and his mother, Reema Pujara, recognized his talents early and Cheteshwar practised with his father. Cheteshwar Pujara completed his BBA."
"Jayant Yadav, (born 22 January 1990) is an Indian cricketer. He plays for Haryana in domestic cricket. He is an all-rounder who bats right-handed, and bowls right-arm off break. He played for the IPL team Delhi Daredevils in 2014.[1]"
Domestic career
"An offspinner from Haryana who can also bat in the lower order, Jayant Yadav made his first-class debut in 2011 at the age of 21. He picked up six wickets in that match, helping his side to a big win against Gujarat, but managed only one more in the two other Ranji Trophy matches he played that season."
IPL carrer
"Having been signed by Delhi Daredevils at the 2015 player auction, Yadav only played three matches in his first IPL season, but showed he could be frugal, finishing with an economy rate of 4.14."
International career
In September 2016 he was added to India's Test squad for their series against New Zealand.[2]
"In October 2016, Anirudh Chaudhry, former Team India Manager and then BCCI’s honorary treasurer, revealed the role of Jyoti Yadav, Jayant’s second mother. His real mother was a woman by the name of Lakshmi, who passed away in a plane crash 17 years ago. Jyoti Yadav nurtured and brought Jayant up as her own son, helping Jayant in every which way possible as he went in pursuit of becoming a top-flight cricketer. [4]"
"Apa (born Lhakpa Tenzing Sherpa; 20 January 1960),[1] nicknamed ""Super Sherpa"",[2] is a Nepalese Sherpa mountaineer who, jointly with Phurba Tashi, holds the record for reaching the summit of Mount Everest more times than any other person. As part of The Eco Everest Expedition 2011, Apa made his 21st Mount Everest summit in May 2011.[3]"
"Lhakpa Tenzing Sherpa was born in Thame, a village in the Everest region of Nepal, near the Chinese border. Following his father's death when he was 12 years old, Apa had to take up the responsibilities of his family, consisting of his mother, two sisters and three young brothers. He dropped out of school and earned money working as a porter for mountaineering groups. His climbing career began in 1985, and he worked as a kitchen boy and porter for various groups but was not given the opportunity to reach the summit until 1990.[1]"
"Apa married Yangjin, then also a resident of Thame, in 1988 and has two sons—Tenjing and Pemba—and a daughter Dawa. The family moved to the United States with the help of his friend Jerry Mika for business opportunities and to provide better education for their children. They live in Draper, Utah.[4][5]"
"In April 2009, Apa founded the Apa Sherpa Foundation, dedicated to the improvement of education and economic development in Nepal.[6] When not on expeditions, Apa works for Diamond Mold, a precision machining and injection molding company in Salt Lake City, Utah that has also supported his foundation.[7][8][9]"
Climbing career
"Apa first reached the summit of Mount Everest on his fourth attempt, on May 10, 1990, with a New Zealand team led by climber Rob Hall along with Peter Hillary, son of Edmund Hillary.[10] He then began his career as Sirdar, or chief Sherpa, for many high altitude expeditions. He has reached the summit every year between 1990 and 2011, bar 1996 and 2001; all but three times have been in May, and in 1992 he reached the summit twice."
Ascents of Mount Everest
"Apa has climbed Mount Everest a total of 21 times, which stands as the current record. Aside from these 21 ascents, however, Apa has also participated in unsuccessful attempts."
"The Feroz Shah Kotla Ground is a cricket ground located at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi.[2] It was established in 1883 and is the second oldest international cricket stadium still functional in India, after the Eden Gardens in Kolkata. As of 2016, the India national cricket team has been undefeated for over 28 years in Test matches and for over 10 years in ODI matches at this ground.[3] The ground is known for Anil Kumble's 10 wickets in an innings against Pakistan, Sachin Tendulkar's 35th test ton to overcome Sunil Gavaskar to become the batsman with the most international Test centuries and formerly Gavaskar's 29th test ton to equal Don Bradman's tally of 29 centuries."
"The first Test match at this venue was played on 10 November 1948 when India took on the West Indies. It is owned and operated by the DDCA (Delhi District Cricket Association). In 1952, playing against Pakistan, Hemu Adhikari and Ghulam Ahmed were involved in a record tenth wicket stand of 109 runs – a record that still stands. In 1965, S Venkataraghavan, in his debut series, demolished the New Zealand line up with figures of 8 for 72 and 4 for 80. In 1969–70, Bishen Singh Bedi and Erapalli Prasanna combined to spin India to a famous seven wicket win over Australia, the duo picking 18 wickets between themselves.[4] In 1981, Geoff Boycott surpassed Gary Sobers' world record test aggregate. In 1983–84, Sunil Gavaskar scored his 29th century to equal Don Bradman's long standing record for the highest number of hundreds in Test cricket. In 1999–2000, in a match against Pakistan, Anil Kumble took 10 for 74 in fourth inning of a Test Match and became the second person to take 10 wickets in an innings after Jim Laker. In 2005–06, at the same ground, Sachin Tendulkar broke Gavaskar's record of most centuries with his 35th Test century.[4]"
"On 27 December 2009, an ODI match between India and Sri Lanka was called off because pitch conditions were classed as unfit to host a match. Based on match referee's report of the match, the ground was banned by ICC for 12 months and returned as one of the venues for the 2011 Cricket World Cup.[5] Since 2008 the stadium has been the home venue of the Delhi Daredevils of the Indian Premier League.[4]"
Statistics
Feroz Shah Kotla - WI vs RSA
Feroz Shah Kotla Ground
Indian cricket team have won 10 test matches here till date.
Most successful team overall:- India - 10 wins Most successful visiting team:- England – 3 wins Highest Innings Score : 644/8 by West Indies on 6 February 1959[6] Lowest Innings Score : 75 all out by India on 25 November 1987[7] Wins Batting First : 5 Wins Bowling First : 13 Average Innings Score : 288 Most Runs : Dilip Vengsarkar (671 runs) Highest Individual Score : 230* by Bert Sutcliffe v India on 16 December 1955 Most Successful Bowler : Anil Kumble (58 wickets)
"The highest ODI score too here is made by West Indies, who scored 330–8 in the 2011 Cricket World Cup.[8] The next highest score is made by Pakistan who scored 303–8 in 2005 and Australia who scored 294–3 in 1998. The most ODI runs scored here is by Sachin Tendulkar (300 runs), followed by Mohammed Azharuddin (267 runs) and Ricky Ponting (245 runs). Kemar Roach, Harbhajan Singh and Ajit Agarkar have taken 7 wickets on this ground in ODIs."
Cricket World Cup
"This stadium has hosted One Day International (ODI) matches when India hosted the Cricket World Cup in 1987, 1996 and 2011."
Twenty20 Internationals
The ground was selected to host matches in the 2016 ICC World Twenty20. Three matches from Group A were scheduled to be played here as well as one semi-final. The first ever Twenty20 International held at the ground was a Group A match between England and Afghanistan.
List of Twenty20 Internationals played at Feroz Shah Kotla:
"Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium (Gujarati: સરદાર પટેલ સ્ટેડીયમ; Motera Stadium) is one of the premier cricket stadiums of India in the Motera locality of Ahmedabad. Because of its location, the stadium is commonly called 'Motera Stadium' to avoid confusion with another stadium of the same name in Navrangpura, Ahmedabad. Sardar Patel stadium is owned by Gujarat Cricket Association and comes under the aegis of the West Zone. It is the largest stadium in the state of Gujarat with an official capacity of 49,000 spectators.[1][4] It is equipped with floodlights for day-and-night games and is a regular venue for Test cricket and One Day Internationals (ODI) matches."
"As of October 2015, the stadium is being demolished in order to be revamped to be the largest second cricket stadium in the world with seating capacity of 100,000. The revamped stadium is planned to be like the Melbourne Cricket Ground. [5]"
"As of December 2011, the Motera stadium had played host to 23 ODI matches. In India, only Eden Gardens (26 ODI matches) has hosted more ODI matches than Motera Stadium.[7] The stadium was one of the host venues for 2011 Cricket World Cup held in India. It hosted three matches, including a quarter final match between India and Australia."
History and development
Records
Sardar Patel Stadium
Test match records
One Day International match records
High points in cricket history
Cricket World Cup
The stadium has hosted One Day International (ODI) matches for all the Cricket World Cups whenever India has hosted the World cups namely
1987 Cricket World Cup
1996 Cricket World Cup
2011 Cricket World Cup
"The Kalinga Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. Built in 2010, it has facilities for athletics, soccer, field hockey, basketball, tennis, table tennis and swimming.[2][3][4] Other features of the stadium includes an 8-lane synthetic athletics track, a sports hostel, gymnasium and the India's first newly built olympic standard pink and blue hockey turf.[5] Kalinga Stadium serves as the home ground for Hockey India League franchise, Kalinga Lancers and I-League 2nd Division franchise, Samaleswari Sporting Club. The Kalinga Stadium is finalized to host the 2014 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy and 2018 Men's Hockey World Cup."
Teams
Kalinga Stadium
"Veer Surendra Sai Stadium is cricket stadium in city of Sambalpur, Orissa. The ground is named after Surendra Sai, an Indian freedom fighter who died fighting the British. The ground hosted cricket matches from 1973.[2] Till date ground has hosted 15 first-class matches. The ground has hosted at least one match since 2008 for Orissa cricket team. The ground hosted two List A matches in 1992 and 1999 both for East Zone.[3]"
The Nagawali Express or Nagavali Express is a train belonging to East Coast Railway. It runs between Sambalpur to Nanded as a Bi-Weekly Express train. The train first ran between Sambalpur and Nizamabad on 23 March 2003.[1] This train was later extended from Nizamabad to Hazur Sahib Nanded.[2] The frequency was increased from Bi-Weekly to Tri-Weekly in Rail budget 2013.[3] It was named after Nagavali River
"It serves the states of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra. It has 19 halts on its way. It starts from Sambalpur on Sunday, Monday and Friday at 08:50 and reaches Hazur Sahib Nanded on Monday,Tuesday and Saturday at 14:35. The train from Sambalpur to Nanded is numbered as 18309[4] and from Nanded to Sambalpur as 18310[5] [6]"
18309- Sambalpur to Hazur Sahib Nanded[7]
18310- Hazur Sahib Nanded to Sambalpur[8]
"Chandrakant Sitaram Pandit  pronunciation (help·info) (born 30 September 1961, in Bombay, Maharashtra) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 5 Tests and 36 ODIs from 1986 to 1992."
Janmabhoomi Express spotted at Moula-Ali
Landscape view at Guntur from Janmabhoomi Express
The Janmabhoomi Express (12805 / 12806) is an InterCity service of Indian Railways that travels from Secunderabad to Visakhapatnam. It was first introduced between Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada Jn. It was later extended up to Tenali and then the Nagarjuna Express(Secunderabad-Tenali-Secunderabad) was cancelled and thus made the Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad Janmabhoomi express via Tenali. It is an express service that travels in Andhra Pradesh. The train travels at an average speed of 55 km/h and uses a WDM from Secunderabad to Vijayawada but then switches to a WDP4 or a WDM3A to Visakhapatnam. It is classified as a superfast train in the Indian Railways classification list.
"Janmabhoomi has 24 coaches, of which 10 are unreserved and the rest for second class and 3 AC chair car."
Statistics
"This is an day intercity express. It has only second seating and chair car which can be reserved. there is no pantry car for this train. This train passes through Nalgonda, Miryalaguda, Piduguralla, Sattenaplli, Guntur, Tenali, Vijayawada (where it switches engines if needed to. Longest stop: 15 minutes), Nuzvid,Elluru,Tadepalligudem, Rajahmundry,Samalkota, Annavaram, Tuni, Ankapalli, Duvvada."
"The Devagiri Express is a train service operated by the South Central Railway zone of Indian Railways. The train runs between Mumbai and Secunderabad, primarily running on Secunderabad-Manmad section via Kalyan Junction, Nasik Road, Manmad, Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Purna, Nanded and Nizamabad. The train shares its rakes with Simhapuri Express."
"The train started as a daily train between Mumbai and Aurangabad. Devagiri or Devgiri is the ancient name of the town of Daulatabad near Aurangabad. Devagiri was once the capital of India during Muhammad bin Tughluq's rule who shifted his capital from New Delhi to Devagiri and back to New Delhi, this is where the name of the service originates."
The train covers its distance of 878 kilometers from Mumbai to Secunderabad in 17 hours with an average speed of 55 km/h (34 mph).
Route
Devagiri Express halts at 28 following stations in its journey from Mumbai to Secunderabad:
The 17618 / 17 Tapovan Express is a Express train belonging to Indian Railways - South Central Railway zone that runs between Nanded & Mumbai in India.
"Tapovan (Sanskrit) comes from the two root words tapasya - meaning specifically austerity, and more generally spiritual practice, and vana, meaning forest, or wilderness."
"Tapovan Express has 2 AC Chair Car, 10 Second Class seating, 3 General Unreserved & 2 Sitting cum Luggage Rack Coaches. In addition, it carries a Pantry car coach ."
"Tapovan Express runs from Huzur Sahib Nanded, Purna Junction, Parbhani Junction, Manvat Road, Selu, Partur, Jalna, Aurangabad, Lasur, Rotegaon, Manmad Junction, Lasalgaon Niphad, Nasik Road, Devlali, Igatpuri, Kalyan Junction, Thane, Dadar Central, Mumbai CST."
"This is a list of mosques in India. India has more than 300,000 active mosques.[1]"
Group
SB Sunni Barelvis U Unknown group (or undetermined)
See also
"Name Images City Year Denomination Remarks Adina Mosque English Bazar 1363 At the time, the largest mosque of South Asia built by Sultan Sikandar Shah. Cheraman Juma Masjid Kodungallur 629 A.D SB First Mosque in India. Malik Dinar Mosque Kasaragod 648 A.D SB Palaiya Jumma Palli Kilakarai 628-630 AD SB Oldest mosque in Tamil Nadu.It is also called as Meen Kada Palli or Old Jumma Palli. Kazimar Big Mosque Madurai 13th century S Second Mosque in Tamil Nadu and one of the oldest mosques following Hanafi school and Fassi, Shadhili Sufi order. Aasfi Masjid Lucknow 1784 Shia Fatehpuri Masjid Delhi 17th Century SB Imam Mufti Mukarram Ahmad Central mahallu jamaath Muvattupuzha (Kerala) 1927 Babri Mosque Ayodhya 1528 (demolished - 1992) SB Ziarat Shareef Kakrala 1980 SB Built by Hazrat Shah Saqlain Miyan Charminar Hyderabad 1591 Shia ""Mosque of the four minarets"" Hazratbal Shrine Srinagar SB Jama Masjid Delhi 1656 SB Jama Masjid Srinagar 1400 SB Atala Masjid Jaunpur 1400 Shia Mecca Masjid Hyderabad 1617-94 Shia/Sunni One of the oldest mosques and the biggest mosque located in Hyderabad, India. Moti Masjid Delhi 1660 U Sidi Saiyyed mosque Ahmedabad 1573 SB Jama Masjid Kalbadevi (Mumbai) 1802 Shafai Periamet Mosque Chennai 1838 U Sir Syed Masjid Aligarh Govt Controlled Shia Jama Masjid Delhi Shia Tipu Sultan Mosque Kolkata 1832 U Masjid e Moazzam Surat 1799-1817 AD Reconstructed 1996 U First Built by Syedna Abdeali Saifuddin and later Rebuilt by Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin Jama Masjid, Bhilai Bhilai 1967 SB First mosque in the world built in the shape of Arabic word Yā Allāh (یا الله). Maniktala Haqqani Masjid Maniktala Kolkata U Built By Haqqani Anjuman"
"Palaiya Jumma Palli (Tamil: பழைய ஜும்மா பள்ளி, ""The Old Jumma Masjid of Kilakarai"" ) or Meen Kadai Palli (Tamil: மீன் கடை பள்ளி ) is a mosque in Kilakarai, Tamil Nadu, India. Built in 628-630 AD, it is believed to be one of the oldest mosques in the world and along with Cheraman Juma Masjid in Kodungallur, Kerala, the first mosque in India.[1][2] It has an Islamic heritage of more than 1000 years. It is located in Kilakarai, an ancient port town in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu known for its Islamic culture. It was built in 628–630 AD and was re-constructed in 1036. The mosque along with the others in the town, is one of the greatest examples of Dravidian Islam architecture.[3]"
History and Construction
"Constructed by the Yemeni merchants and trade settlers of the pre-Islamic period in Pandiya kingdom ordered by Baadhan (Bazan ibn Sasan) Governor of Yemen at the time of Prophet Muhammad, after they accepted Islam in 625–628 AD at the time of Kavadh II son of Khosrau II (king of Persia). This mosque was rebuilt in the 11th century after saheed war. It is the oldest mosque of India. Bazan Ibn Sasan, Tamim Ibn zayd al ansari, Ibnu Batutah, Nagoor Abdul Cadir, Ervadi Ibrahim Sahib, Sultan of Ottoman Murad and other most famous Islamic scholars visited the mosque and Ibnu Batutah said in his travel notes ""it's the place of where most arab settlers live and he surprised to see them living as in Arab land""."
"The mosque looks like a temple from outside and inside, but does not have any idol carving on the pillars or walls. There is the Mihrab on the wall like all mosques for identifying the direction of prayer, which is the only proof that it is a mosque. Elaborate carvings are present on the surfaces of the walls of the mosque and lofty beams are also present in the 'pallavasal' of the mosque. The mosque bears a Tamil architectural look, which implies a distinctive architectural pattern."
Palaiya Jumma Palli
"Kilakarai, Kilakkarai or Keelakarai (Tamil: கீழக்கரை) is a municipality in Ramanathapuram district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. As of 2011, the town had a population of 38,355. Kilakarai is one of the Taluka in Ramanathapuram District."
About
"Kilakarai is an ancient coastal town and a port, located in the southern Tamil Nadu. It was a flourishing sea port and a gateway to places as far as Madurai until the early 20th century. The famous pearl belt known as the Gulf of Mannar in the Bay of Bengal is dotted with small islands Appa Tivu, Nallathanni Theevu, Shuli Tivu,Uppu Tanni Tivu, Talari Tivu and Musal Tivu. The coastal line of Kilakarai is formed by series of small bays and finest coral reefs sheltering the town from the perils of the ocean. It was also called as ""Kelikkarai"", ""Ninathaan mudithaan pattinam"", ""Sembi Nadu"", ""lebbat pattan"" (pattan mentioned in voyages of Ibn Battuta & map displayed in Ibn Battuta Mall)."
"The prime occupations of the people were pearl, conch, sea trade and transport. The mid-20th century saw a decline in the occupations of the people of Kilakarai, with the advent of the surface transport the Merchant Navies faded away and Kilakarai aka Killikare[1] ceased to be a harbour and port. The cultured pearl industry and the mindless dragnet fishing that destroyed the coral reefs, choked the once robust pearl trade or Muthu Salabam. The conch and coral industries declined due to new regulations and restrictions."
"Kilakarai is renowned for its communal harmony. The majority of the population here is Muslim with people of other faith Hindu, Christians living together. The communal harmony that always existed is best exemplified by the famous Rameswaram temple and Jumma Pallivasal (Vallal Seethakathi is interred here) at Kilakarai, while the architecture is the same the workforce was provided by the erstwhile ruler mannan SETHUPATHI of Ramnad and most of the materials for both the edifice were supplied by the Kilakarai merchant navies. The town is reminiscent of Spanish Moorish architecture and is located about 60 km south west of the temple town of Rameswaram."
"It has the 4th oldest Mosque in the world and the first mosque in India known as the Jumma Palli or Meen Kada Palli. It has a unique pre-Islamic heritage of more than 2,000 years. The Kilakarai Muslims or Kilakarai Moors form 80% of the population of Kilakarai. Ibnu Batutah once said in his travel notes ""it's the place where most Arab settlers live and he was surprised to see them living as in Arab land""."
"Kilakarai was constituted as a panchayat in the year 1885. As per G.O. No. 1157LN, date: 03.12.1885. And it has been upgraded as a Special Town Panchayat as per Director of Town Panchayat, Madras as per G.O. No. 1481/82/J5, Dated on 25.1.1982 and then this municipality is upgraded as per G.O. No. 300 and 301 Dated on 24.08.2004 as a Third Grade Municipality."
"According to 2011 census, Keelakarai had a population of 38,355 with a sex-ratio of 948 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929.[5] A total of 4,391 were under the age of six, constituting 2,204 males and 2,187 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 2.83% and .% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the town was 82.63%, compared to the national average of 72.99%.[5] The town had a total of : 7448 households. There were a total of 12,033 workers, comprising 29 cultivators, 47 main agricultural labourers, 165 in house hold industries, 10,765 other workers, 1,027 marginal workers, 15 marginal cultivators, 18 marginal agricultural labourers, 38 marginal workers in household industries and 956 other marginal workers.[6] As per the religious census of 2011, Keelakarai had 17.6% Hindus, 79.92% Muslims, 1.16% Christians, 0.01% Sikhs, 0.01% Jains, and 1.31% following other religions.[7]"
Educational institutions
"The colleges include Mohamed Sathak Engineering College, Thassim Beevi Abdul Kader College for women, Arusiyyah Madrasah, Syed Hameedha Arts & Science College, Syed Hameedha Arabic College, Mohamed Sathak Polytechnic College, Mohamed Sathak I.T.I (Industrial Training Institute),[8] and Kilakarai Bukhari Aalim Arabic College. An IAS coaching centre is going to be established in Kilakarai.[9]"
Photo gallery
"The Gulf of Mannar is a large shallow bay forming part of the Laccadive Sea in the Indian Ocean. It lies between the southeastern tip of India and the west coast of Sri Lanka, in the Coromandel Coast Region."
Conservation
Marine sanctuary
"Located on the southeastern tip of the subcontinent, the Gulf of Mannar is known to harbour over 3,600 species of flora and fauna, making it one of the richest coastal regions in Asia. 117 hard coral species have been recorded in the Gulf of Mannar. Sea turtles are frequent visitors to the gulf as are sharks, dugongs, and dolphins. However, the combined effects of 47 villages, with a total population of around 50,000 has meant that overharvesting of marine species has become a problem. Fish catches have declined, as have pearl oyster, gorgonian coral, and acorn worm populations. Local fishermen rely on the reef to feed their families, but destructive fishing methods combined with the stress of pollution and coral mining have meant both nearshore and offshore catches have decreased. Endangered species include dolphins, dugongs, whales and sea cucumbers.[1]"
"In 1986, a group of 21 islets lying off the Tamil Nadu coast between Thoothukudi and Dhanushkodi were declared the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park. The park and its 10 km buffer zone were declared a Biosphere Reserve in 1989."
Biosphere reserve
"The Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve covers an area of 10,500 km² of ocean, islands and the adjoining coastline. The islets and coastal buffer zone includes beaches, estuaries, and tropical dry broadleaf forests, while the marine environments include seaweed communities, sea grass communities, coral reefs, salt marshes and mangrove forests.[4]"
"Pearl fishing in the Gulf of Mannar, ca. 1926"
"The Laccadive Sea or Lakshadweep Sea is a body of water bordering India (including its Lakshadweep islands), the Maldives, and Sri Lanka. It is located to the west of Kerala. This warm sea has a stable water temperature through the year and is rich in marine life, with the Gulf of Mannar alone hosting about 3,600 species. Trivandrum, Kochi, Colombo, Quilon and Male are the major cities on the shore of the Laccadive Sea."
Extent
A View of the Laccadive Sea from Villingili
The International Hydrographic Organization defines the limits of the Laccadive Sea as follows:[2]
On the West. A line running from Sadashivgad Lt. on West Coast of India (14°48′N 74°07′E﻿ / ﻿14.800°N 74.117°E﻿ / 14.800; 74.117) to Corah Divh (13°42′N 72°10′E﻿ / ﻿13.700°N 72.167°E﻿ / 13.700; 72.167) and thence down the West side of the Laccadive [Lakshadweep] and Maldive Archipelagos to the most Southerly point of Addu Atoll in the Maldives. On the South. A line running from Dondra Head in Ceylon [Sri Lanka] to the most Southerly point of Addu Atoll. On the East. The West coasts of Ceylon and India. On the Northeast. Adams Bridge (between India and Ceylon).
Hydrology
"Water temperature is rather constant through the year, averaging 26–28 °С in summer and 25 °С in winter. Salinity is 34‰ (parts per thousand) in the center and northern part and up to 35.5‰ in the south. The coasts are sandy but the deeper parts are covered in silt. There are numerous coral reefs in the sea, such as the Lakshadweep islands which are made up of atolls and contain 105 coral species.[1][3][4]"
"Pearl fishing in the Gulf of Mannar, ca. 1926"
"The Gulf of Mannar is known for its pearl banks of Pinctada radiata and Pinctada fucata for at least two thousand years. Pliny the Elder (23–79) praised the pearl fishery of the gulf as most productive in the world.[5][6] Although extraction of natural pearls is considered too expensive in most parts of the world, it is still conducted in the gulf.[7][8] Also collected in large numbers are Shankha mollusks (Xancus pyrum)[7] whose shells are used as a ritual and religious object. Other mollusks of the sea[9] are either too scarce or not popular in the Indian society and therefore have no commercial value.[10]"
"Another traditional occupation in the Laccadive Sea is fishing. The annual fish catch is 2,000 to 5,000 tonnes from the Lakshadweep islands, which is mostly constituted by tuna (about 70%) and shark. Perches, halfbeaks, Carangidae, needlefish and rays are also caught near the reefs. Shrimp, Achelata[1] and small fish, such as Sprattus, Pomacentridae and Apogonidae are widely used as a bait by the Laccadive islanders.[11]"
"Geraint Jones is Welsh, was born in Papua New Guinea, brought up in Australia, and represented England at Test cricket"
This is a list of Test cricketers who were born in a country that does not currently play Test cricket.
List of Test cricketers born in non-Test playing nations
"Abhishek Yadav (born 10 June 1980) is an Indian professional footballer who plays as striker for Mumbai F.C. in the I-League. Abhishek is known for his ability in the air as he stands at 6 ft 2 in (1.88 m) tall. He also runs his own football academy, ""Football School of India"", which provides professional football training. Currently the academy is operational cross 5 cities in India (Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Kolkata and Bangalore)"
Club career
"During his youth, Abhishek Yadav played for local team Rashtriya Chemical Fertilizers (RCF) in the 1998/99 season. After finding success at RCF, Yadav began his professional career at Mahindra United."
International career
"Yadav has been involved with the Indian national squad since 2002. During his debut, Yadav came off the substitutes bench and scored the winning goal in the LG Cup final against Vietnam.[3] This was the first trophy India had won abroad in 28 years.[4]"
"The Gita Press is the world's largest publisher of Hindu religious texts.[1] It is located in Gorakhpur city of India's Uttar Pradesh state. It was founded in 1923 by Jaya Dayal Goyandka and Ghanshyam Das Jalan for promoting the principles of Sanatana Dharma. Hanuman Prasad Poddar better known as ""Bhaiji"" was the founding and the lifetime editor of its noted magazine who also wrote articles with his pen name ""SHIV"", Kalyan.[2] It started publishing in 1927, with a circulation of 1,600 copies and at present its print order had reached 2.5 lakh (in 2012). The Gita Press archives contain over 3,500 manuscripts including over 100 interpretations of the Gita.[3]"
"Gita Press Gate, with its pillars inspired from the cave temples of Ellora, the gopuram, by Meenakshi temple, Madurai"
"It temporarily shut down in December 2014 over wage issues,[4] but work resumed a few days later.[5]"
Kalyan masik (in Hindi) is a monthly magazine being published since 1927. It has articles devoted to various religious topics promoting uplifting thought and good deeds. Writings by Indian saints and scholars are regularly published in the magazine. Kalyana-Kalpataru (in English) is also a monthly and has been published since 1934. Its contents are similar to Kalyan.
Neither of these magazines runs any advertisements.
Religious texts
It has a small Bhagavath Gita which costs Rs.4/- which is very popular
"Shrimad Bhagvad Gita (several formats) The Mahabharata Shri Ramcharitmanas by Tulsidas (several formats), Telugu version (2002) [6] Other works by Tulsidas Valmiki Ramayana (several formats) Scriptures (Puranas, Upanishads and others) Works by Soordas Books by Swami Ramsukhdas Books by Hanuman Prasad Poddar Books by Jaydayal Goyandaka"
Other publications
Bhakta-Gathas and Bhajans Small books geared towards children
"The Art Gallery has the lilas ( exploits ) of Shri Rama and Shri Krishna portrayed in 684 paintings by famed artists of the past and present. Other paintings, including Mewari style paintings of the Shri Krishna Lila are also on exhibit. The entire 700 verses of the Bhagvad Gita are displayed on marble plaques affixed to the walls."
"Gita Press outlet, Gita Bhavan, Muni Ki Reti"
"The Gita Press is part of the Govind Bhawan Karyalaya, Kolkata. Other affiliated institutions are:"
"Gita Bhavan, Muni Ki Reti, Rishikesh Rishikul-Brahmacharya Ashram (Vedic school), Churu, Rajasthan. Ayurved Sansthan (producer of Ayurvedic medicines), Rishikesh. Gita Press Seva Dal (relief organization for natural calamities). Hasta Nirmit Vastra Vibhag (producer of handloom made clothes). Bhartiya Gramodyog Vastra Bhandar (first retailer of Gita Press in Mumbai)."
"This includes a list of airports in India. The list includes commercially used, former, flying schools, military bases."
City Served Airport Name ICAO IATA Category Role Angul Savitri Jindal Airport VEAL IN 0073 Private Balangir Nuagaon Airport VE63 — Domestic Balasore Rasgovindpur Airstrip — IN 0057 Domestic Barbil Barbil Tonto Aerodrome VEBL IN 0074 Private Bhawanipatna Utkela Airstrip VEUK — Domestic Bhubaneswar Biju Patnaik International Airport VEBS BBI International Commercial Brahmapur Brahmapur Airport VEBM BMP Domestic Cuttack Charbatia Air Base — — Defence Airbase Dhenkanal Birasal Airstrip VEUK Hirakud/Sambalpur Hirakud Airstrip VEHK — Domestic Jajpur Jajpur Airstrip — IN 0092 Private Jeypore Jeypore Airport VEJP PYB Domestic Jharsuguda Jharsuguda Airport VEJH JSA Domestic Commercial Kendujhar Kendujhar Airstrip VEKJ — Private Lanjigarh Lanjigarh Airstrip — IN 0093 Private Nuapada Nawapara Airport VENP — Domestic Phulbani Phulbani Airstrip VEPN — Private Rourkela Rourkela Airport VERK RRK Private Commercial
Contents
"City served – The city generally associated with the airport. This is not always the actual location since some airports are located in smaller towns outside of the city they serve. ICAO – The location indicator assigned by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). ICAO indicator: VA – West Zone, VE – East Zone, VI – North Zone, VO – South Zone IATA – The airport code assigned by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Category – Category of the airport as defined by Airports Authority of India[1] as per the table below Role – Role of the airport as given by the table below"
Category of Airport Category Description Customs Airports with Customs Checking and Clearance Facilities handling international flights but not elevated to International Airport status. Defence Indian Armed Forces Handled Airport Domestic Handles domestic flights Future Proposed or Under Construction International Handles International Flights Private Private airport for specific purposes
"Salem Airport (IATA: SXV, ICAO: VOSM) is located in Kamalapuram, 15 kilometres north-west of Salem, Tamil Nadu, India. It serves Salem city and the districts of Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri."
"Salem airport was constructed in April 1993 at a cost of Rs. 6 Crore, covering a sprawling 136 acres extensively donated by local traders and industrialists. The airport was the first in the country built with the help of contributions from members of the public. A total of Rs. 49 lakh, including Rs. 30 lakh by Salem Steel Plant. Originally planned for Vayudoot services using small aircraft and conceived with a 1,350-metre runway, it was expanded by another 600 metres to accommodate bigger planes. Initially, NEPC Airlines operated flights on the Chennai–Salem–Coimbatore–Chennai sector using Fokker F-27 aircraft. however, the airline withdrew the service after three months citing ‘non-viability’ as its main reason.[3] The Salem airport lay in disuse since then as no airline was willing to invest in this sector. Although the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had spruced up the airport and made it ready for operation, airlines did not show interest to fly, fearing low patronage. In 2006, Air Deccan agreed to kickstart its Salem operations but only if the local industry deposited at least Rs 90 lakh or gave a commitment for 50% bookings. Meanwhile, Air Deccan merged with Kingfisher Airlines.[4] Kingfisher Airlines did provide a service from Chennai, but terminated the service in 2012 owing to its financial problems. In recent times however, TruJet has shown some interest in starting flights from Salem.[citation needed]"
"After a 3-year wait and prolonged negotiations, Kingfisher airlines commenced daily flights to Chennai using its ATR aircraft on 15 November 2009. The service was withdrawn on 28 October 2011, again citing poor patronage.[5]"
"The excellent conditions prevailing at Salem Airport are highly suitable for flight training. Salem Airport is now the hotspot for establishment of flight training and pilot training centres in southern India. Given the state of the art infrastructure available here, it is an ideal training airport and base for aspiring pilots. The reputed air charter operator based in Salem (Salem Air) has started pilot training services. Salem Aviation Services and the Salem Flying Club operate from Salem airport. Its already home to two flying schools based at Salem.[5]"
"Jaipur International Airport (IATA: JAI, ICAO: VIJP) is the primary airport serving Jaipur, the capital of the Indian state of Rajasthan. Jaipur International Airport has been declared as the World's Best Airport in the category of 2 to 5 million passengers per annum for 2015 according to Airports Council International.[2]"
"It is located in the southern suburb of Sanganer, 13 km (8.1 mi) from Jaipur.[3] The airport was granted the status of international airport on 29 December 2005.[4] The civil apron can accommodate 14 aircraft the size of an Airbus A320 and the new terminal building can handle up to 1000 passengers at a time.[5]"
Jaipur International Airport
Jaipur International Airport Terminal 2 from Apron
Inside Terminal 2
"The new domestic terminal building at the airport was inaugurated on 1 July 2009.[6][7] The new terminal has an area of 22,950 square metres (247,000 sq ft) with facilities such as central heating system, central air conditioning, inline x-ray baggage inspection system integrated with the departure conveyor system, inclined arrival baggage claim carousels, escalators, public address system, flight information display system, CCTV for surveillance, airport check-in counters with Common Use Terminal Equipment (CUTE), car parking, etc. The International Terminal building has peak hour passenger handling capacity of 500 passengers and annual handling capacity of 400,000. The entrance gate is made of sandstone and Dholpur stones along with Rajasthani paintings on the walls. Runway expansion work at the airport started in February 2014 and was completed by July 2015 at an estimated cost of Rs.98 crore. The expansion allows the airport to accommodate wide-body aircraft.[8]"
Cargo
"Beginning from July 16, 2012, Terminal 1 was closed to passenger traffic and was remodeled to handle solely cargo operations. [10] The cargo terminal is adjacent to the old passenger terminal building and has an area of approximately 700 square metres (7,500 sq ft). The cargo facility is being provided by Rajasthan Small Scale Industries, a public sector undertaking of Government of Rajasthan."
Incidents
"On 18 February 1969, Douglas DC-3 VT-CJH of Indian Airlines crashed on take-off on a scheduled passenger flight. The aircraft was overloaded and take-off was either downwind or with a crosswind. All 30 people on board survived.[11] On 9 August 1971, Vickers Viscount VT-DIX of Indian Airlines was damaged beyond economic repair when it overran the runway. The aircraft landed with a tailwind on a wet runway.[12] On 5 January 2014, Flight AI-890 Airbus A320 VT-ESH of Air India from Imphal to Delhi via Guwahati was diverted to Jaipur airport due to heavy fog in Delhi. The rear tyre of the plane burst during landing, damaging the right wing. The plane received substantial damage and the aircraft was written off. All 173 passengers and 6 crew members survived.[13][14][15]"
Jaipur International Airport
"Lanjigarh Airstrip (IATA: IN 0093) is a private/public airstrip owned by Vedanta Resources located at Lanjigarh in the Kalahandi district of Odisha. Nearest airport/airstrip to this airstrip is Utkela Airstrip in Balangir, Odisha. [1]"
"This is a list of urban agglomerations and cities (those not included in the Urban Agglomerations), with a population above 100,000 as per 2011 census in the Indian state of Odisha:[1]"
Urban Agglomeration
"In the census of India 2011, an Urban Agglomeration has been defined as follows:[3]"
Constituents of Urban Agglomerations
"The constituents of Urban Agglomerations in Odisha, with a population of 1 lakh or above, are noted below:[4]"
"Urban Agglomerations constituents with a population above 100,000 as per 2011 census are shown in the table below.[5]"
The major industrial centres in India are listed below:[1]
"Industrial clusters in India for Automobile, Pharmaceutical, Electrical, Cement and Logistics & Warehousing"
The following are lists of occupations grouped by category.
Science and technology
Entertainment
Healthcare and medicine
Industrial and manufacturing
Law Enforcement and Armed Forces
Management
An engineering technician explains instrument readings
"This is a list of science and science-related occupations, which include various scientific occupations, careers based upon scientific research disciplines and explorers."
Applied Science
Formal Science
General Scientific occupations
Life Science
Natural Science
Physical Science
Earth Science
Social science
"An educational technologist is someone who is trained in the field of educational technology. Educational technologists try to analyze, design, develop, implement and evaluate process and tools to enhance learning.[1] While educational technologist is used primarily in the United States, learning technologist is synonymous and used in the UK [2] as well as Canada."
Educational technologist
A statistician is someone who works with theoretical or applied statistics. The profession exists in both the private and public sectors. It is common to combine statistical knowledge with expertise in other subjects.
Nature of the work
"According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, as of 2014, 26,970 jobs were classified as statistician in the United States.[1] Of these people, approximately 30 percent worked for governments (federal, state, or local). Additionally, there is a substantial number of people who use statistics in their work but have job titles other than statistician,[2] such as actuaries, applied mathematicians, economists, financial analysts, psychometricians, sociologists, epidemiologists, and quantitative psychologists.[3] The job of statistician is considered a profession. Most statisticians work in offices and have regular working hours and can therefore be considered white-collar workers. A minority of statisticians are self-employed statistical consultants.[citation needed]"
"Most employment as a statistician requires a minimum of a masters degree in statistics or a related field. Many professional statisticians have a PhD. Typical work includes collaborating with scientists, providing mathematical modeling, simulations, designing randomized experiments and randomized sampling plans, analyzing experimental or survey results, and forecasting future events (such as sales of a product)."
"This is a list of writing occupations organized alphabetically. These are positions, jobs and occupations that typically entail creative, entertaining or informational writing."
Author Blogger Book coach Commissioning editor Copy editor Creative consultant Dog writer Freelancer Ghostwriter Griot Hack writer Infopreneur Journalist Literary editor Manuscript format Medical writing Poet Polygraph (author) Review Screenwriter Scribe Script coordinator Script doctor Scrivener Speechwriter Staff writer Technical writer Website content writer Writer
List of writing occupations
"A poet is a person who writes poetry. Poets may describe themselves as such or be described as such by others. A poet may simply be a writer of poetry, or may perform their art to an audience."
"The work of a poet is essentially one of communication, either expressing ideas in a literal sense, such as writing about a specific event or place, or metaphorically. Poets have existed since antiquity, in nearly all languages, and have produced works that vary greatly in different cultures and time periods.[2] Throughout each civilization and language, poets have used various styles that have changed through the course of literary history, resulting in a history of poets as diverse as the literature they have produced."
"In Ancient Rome, professional poets were generally sponsored by patrons, wealthy supporters including nobility and military officials.[3] For instance, Gaius Cilnius Maecenas, friend to Caesar Augustus, was an important patron for the Augustan poets, including both Horace and Virgil."
"Poets held an important position in pre-Islamic Arabic society with the poet or sha'ir filling the role of historian, soothsayer and propagandist. Words in praise of the tribe (qit'ah) and lampoons denigrating other tribes (hija') seem to have been some of the most popular forms of early poetry. The sha'ir represented an individual tribe's prestige and importance in the Arabian peninsula, and mock battles in poetry or zajal would stand in lieu of real wars. 'Ukaz, a market town not far from Mecca, would play host to a regular poetry festival where the craft of the sha'irs would be exhibited."
"The Renaissance period saw a continuation of patronage of poets by royalty. Many poets, however, had other sources of income, including Italians like Dante Aligheri, Giovanni Boccaccio and Petrarch's works in a pharmacist's guild and William Shakespeare's work in the theater."
"In the Romantic period and onwards, many poets were independent writers who made their living through their work, often supplemented by income from other occupations or from family.[4] This included poets such as William Wordsworth and Robert Burns."
"Poets of earlier times were often well read and highly educated people while others were to a large extent self-educated. A few poets such as John Gower and John Milton were able to write poetry in more than one language. Some Portuguese poets, as Francisco de Sá de Miranda, wrote not only in Portuguese but also in Spanish.[5] Jan Kochanowski wrote in Polish and in Latin,[6] France Prešeren and Karel Hynek Mácha[7] wrote some poems in German, although they were poets of Slovenian and Czech respectively. Adam Mickiewicz, the greatest poet of Polish language, wrote a Latin ode for emperor Napoleon III. Another example is Jerzy Pietrkiewicz, a Polish poet. When he moved to Great Britain, he ceased to write poetry in Polish, but started writing novel in English.[8] He also translated poetry from English and into English."
"Information design is the practice of presenting information in a way that fosters efficient and effective understanding of it. The term has come to be used specifically for graphic design for displaying information effectively, rather than just attractively or for artistic expression. Information design is closely related to the field of data visualization and is often taught as part of graphic design courses.[1]"
Information design is explanation design. It explains facts of the world and leads to knowledge and informed action. [2]
"The term 'information design' emerged as a multidisciplinary area of study in the 1970s. Some graphic designers started to use the term, and it was consolidated with the publication of the Information Design Journal in 1979, and later with the setting up of the related International Institute for Information Design (IIID) in 1987 and Information Design Association (IDA) in 1991.[3] In 1982, Edward Tufte produced a book on information design called The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. The term information graphics tends to be used by those primarily concerned with diagramming and display of quantitative information."
Early examples
Charles Joseph Minard's 1861 diagram of Napoleon's March - an early example of an information graphic.
"William Playfair's line, bar, pie, and area charts illustrating England's trade (1786 and 1801)[4][5] John Snow's spot maps, which pinpointed the source of a deadly cholera outbreak in 1850s London[6] Charles Joseph Minard's 1861 diagram depicting Napoleon's Russian campaign of 1812[7] Otto Neurath's International Picture Language of the 1930s[8] Florence Nightingale's information graphic depicting army mortality rates[9]"
Applications
A visual definition of Disability Adjusted Life Year
"Visualization of the frequency of outbound trains from Bangalore, India. Based on the work of Étienne-Jules Marey"
Simplicity
"Simplicity is a major concern in information design. The aim is clarity. Simplification of messages may imply quantitative reduction but is not restricted to that. Sometimes more information means more clarity. Also, simplicity is a highly subjective matter and should always be evaluated with the information user in mind."
Information design
Engineering colleges in India are ranked by several magazines and newspapers. This is a comparative list of such rankings published during 2015. The criteria employed by each publisher when compiling its list differs; the criteria are usually published along with the results.
DNP = Did not participate; N/A = Not Applicable; - = Unranked; (# in brackets) = the number of colleges ranked in the survey's published results.
The busiest Indian airports (2015-16).
Aircraft movement
The tables below contains data published by the Airports Authority of India on the busiest airports in India by total passenger traffic.
Cargo
Passenger Traffic
List of top ten busiest airports in India by passenger traffic in the first six months of 2016.[1]
"List of airports with passenger traffic, aircraft movements and cargo handled table published by Airports Authority of India.[7][8][9]"
List of airports by passenger traffic during FY14.[10][11][12]
April 2015 - March 2016
Passenger Traffic
This is a list of notable artists who were born in India and or have a strong association with India.
Contemporary artists
List of Indian artists
"P.M. Sreenivasan (1919-1983), who adopted the name Silpi, was a Tamil illustrator, best known for his detailed renditions of Tamil architecture and sculpture in Ananda Vikatan magazine. Silipi was a line artist. He was one of the most popular person in Tamil Nadu. Jk Pat Coughlin was the most popular person in Tamil Nadu"
Life and career
"Sreenivasan studied art at the Madras School of Art, later the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai, where he excelled in pen and ink line sketches.[1]"
"At Ananda Vikatan, Sreenivasan used to cover political and social events, portraying them in his drawings. He was mentored by the magazine's senior artist Mali, who gave him the name Silpi (sculptor), on observing the artist's skill in rendering temple buildings and temple sculpture. A deeply religious person, Silpi developed his skill into a unique specialization over his twenty-two years with Ananda Vikatan. From 1947 to 1960, his drawings of temples of South India appeared every week in Ananda Vikatan under the title Thennattu Selvangal (Treasures of South India)."
"He was working in Ananda vikatan from 1945 to 1967 as Artist. After leaving Ananda Vikatan, Silpi did illustrations for Bhavan's Journal, Kalai Magal, Thinamani Kathir, Amuthasurabhi, etc. He was a mentor to the illustrator Padmavasan."
"Silpi toured temples in every nook and cranny of South India. His drawings of temple sculpture were sketched on location at night, after the devotees had finished their darshan. For his followers, he provided the rare opportunity to view the innermost sanctums of temples. Every detail of the deity's ornaments was rendered accurately. Devotees kept his drawings in their prayer rooms to worship their gods and goddesses."
Silpi
"Train station in Koudougou, Burkina Faso."
"There are 622 kilometres of 1,000 mm (3 ft 3 3⁄8 in) gauge railway in Burkina Faso which run from Kaya to the border with Côte d'Ivoire. As of June 2014 Sitarail operates a passenger train three times a week along the route from Ouagadougou to Abidjan.[1]"
Burkina Faso is landlocked but the railway to Abidjan provides rail access to a port. Links to railways in Ghana and the port of Takoradi have been repeatedly proposed.[2][3][4]
Stations
The following towns of Burkina Faso are served by the country's railways:
Construction resuming
(for 3MTpa manganese - 2014) Kaya - terminus [5] Dori (approx. 100 km of the extension from Kaya to Dori visible on Google Earth dated 15/2/07) Markoye Tambao manganese [6] - near Niger/Mali borders [7][8]
Proposed
"On 31 November 2011, a agreement was signed to build a new international railway connecting Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, Niger and Benin.[9]"
"Pan African Minerals to develop the Tambao manganese project at a cost of up to $1 billion. The manganese mine is in the north of Burkina Faso, near the border with Niger and Mali, containing perhaps 100 million tonnes of the metal, used in steel production. The Tamboa project is an integrated project with a mining component and an infrastructure component, notably through the roads, railway and the port...,"" said Romanian billionaire Frank Timis. The project will happen in the next three years and will require investment of nearly $1 billion."" [10][11]"
Maps
Jammu and Kashmir have asked for more time to decide on the potential smart city. 12 cities have been shortlisted from Uttar Pradesh against 13 cities allocated to the state.
1st Round - Selection of 20 Smart Cities
2nd Round - Selection of 13 Smart Cities
3rd round - Selection of 27 Smart Cities
New Smart City List[12]
Implementation
The cities selected have started project preparations and implementation.
"The projects launched by Ahmedabad are ""sewage treatment plant, housing project and smart learning in municipal schools"". Bhubaneswar launched ""railway multi-modal hub, traffic signalisation project and urban knowledge centre"". New Delhi Municipal Council launched ""mini-sewerage treatment plants, 444 smart class rooms, WiFi, smart LED streetlights, city surveillance, command and control centre"". Launch of Smart city projects in Pune [2]"
Smart Cities Mission is an urban renewal and retrofitting program by the Government of India with a mission to develop 100 cities (the target has been revised to 109 cities) all over the country making them citizen friendly and sustainable.[1] The Union Ministry of Urban Development is responsible for implementing the mission in collaboration with the state governments of the respective cities. The Government of India under the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has a vision of developing 100 smart cities as satellite towns of larger cities by modernizing the existing mid-sized cities.
"Smart Cities Awas Yojna Mission was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2015.[2] A total of ₹980 billion (US$15 billion) has been approved by the Indian Cabinet for development of 100 smart cities and rejuvenation of 500 others. ₹48,000 crore (US$7.1 billion) for the Smart Cities mission and a total funding of ₹50,000 crore (US$7.4 billion) for the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) has been approved by the Cabinet.[2][3]"
Selection
"The list of nomination marked the first stage in the selection process of smart cities, in which the state governments nominated potential cities and the Centre shortlisted 100.[citation needed] In August 2015 the Govt. of India released the list of nominees. The list comprises 98 cities, including many state capitals.[5]"
"The Ministry of Urban Development received proposals from the 97 cities to be the beneficiaries of the first year financing from 2016 onwards. Hon'ble Minister of Urban Development (MoUD) Shri Venkaiah Naidu announced the selected top 20 from among them on 28 January 2016. Bhubaneswar topped the list of top 20, followed by Pune and Jaipur.[6]"
List of Smart Cities by State
98 projected smart cities by state.[7][8][9]
"Diu is a town in Diu district in the union territory of Daman and Diu, India. Diu District is the tenth least populated district of India."
"The town of Diu lies at the eastern end of Diu Island, and is known for its fortress and old Portuguese Cathedral. It is also a fishing town."
"Diu in the early of 16th century (in Braun et Hogenberg, 1600)"
"Diu town and the Portuguese fort (British engraving, 1729)."
The town and district were historically part of the Saurashtra region of Gujarat and an important port on trade routes of Arabian sea of Indian Ocean.
"In 1535 Bahadur Shah, the Sultan of Gujarat, concluded a defensive alliance with the Portuguese against the Mughal emperor Humayun, and allowed the Portuguese to construct the Diu Fort and maintain a garrison on the island."
Population
Street view of Diu
Demographics
"As of 2001[update] India census,[1] Diu had a population of 21,576. Males constitute 46% of the population and females 54%. Diu has an average literacy rate of 71%, falling below the 2011 national average of 74.04%. Male literacy is 81% and female literacy is 69%. In Diu, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Geography and climate
"St. Paul's Church, Diu"
Diu Fort
"Naida Caves, near Jalandhar Beach"
"Diu is located at 20°43′N 70°59′E﻿ / ﻿20.71°N 70.98°E﻿ / 20.71; 70.98.[2] The island is at sea level and covers an area of 38.8 km². The climate is extremely warm and humid, with an average annual rainfall of 1500 mm."
General Information
"With no tall buildings except the fort, Diu has a characteristically low skyline."
"Local transport is available from Una, Gujarat. Air India Regional and Jet Airways service the island from the mainland, landing at Diu Airport."
"Trivia: Many people confuse Diu with Daman. Although people refer to them together, they are different places (approximately 650 km from each other)."
These are the list of notable lakes in India.[1]
"Vembanad (Vembanad Kayal or Vembanad Kol) is the longest lake in India,[1] and the largest lake in the state of Kerala. It is also counted as one of the largest lakes in India. Spanning several districts in the state of Kerala, it is known as Punnamada Lake in Kuttanad, Kochi Lake in Kochi. Several groups of small islands including Vypin, Mulavukad, Vallarpadam, Willingdon Island are located in the Kochi Lake portion. Kochi Port is built around the Willingdon Island, and the Vallarpadam island."
The Nehru Trophy Boat Race is conducted in a portion of the lake. High levels of pollution have been noticed at certain hotspots of the Vembanad backwaters. Government of India has identified the Vembanad wetland under National Wetlands Conservation Programme.
Geography and hydrography
Location in Kerala
"The Vembanad wetland system covers an area of over 2033.02 km² [2] thereby making it the largest wetland system in India. Of this, an area of 398.12 km² is located below the MSL and a total of 763.23 km² area is located below 1 m MSL. The lake is bordered by Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Ernakulam districts. It is situated at the sea level, and is separated from the Arabian Sea by a narrow barrier island. Canals link the lake to other coastal lakes in the north and south. The lake surrounds the islands of Pathiramanal, Perumbalam and Pallippuram. The Vembanad Lake is approximately 14 kilometres wide at its widest point. The lake is a part of Vembanad-Kol wetland system which extends from Alappuzha in the south to Azheekkode in the north, making it by far, India's longest lake at just over 96.5 km in length. The lake is fed by 10 rivers flowing into it including the six major rivers of central Kerala namely the Achenkovil, Manimala, Meenachil, Muvattupuzha, Pamba and Periyar. The total area drained by the lake is 15,770 km²,[3] which accounts for 40% of the area of Kerala. Its annual surface runoff of 21,900 Mm accounts for almost 30% of the total surface water resource of the state."
"The most popular location on the shores of the lake is the Kumarakom Tourist Village situated on the east coast of the lake.[4] The Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary is located on the northern fringes of Kumarakom village. The Vembanad Wetland system was included in the list of wetlands of international importance, as defined by the Ramsar Convention for the conservation and sustainable utilization of wetlands in 2002. It is the largest of the three Ramsar Sites in the state of Kerala. Vembanad lake has been heavily reclaimed over the course of the past century with the water spread area reducing from 290.85 km² in 1917 to 227 km² in 1971 and 213.28 km² in 1990. In the same period almost 63.62 km of erstwhile water spread were reclaimed primarily for formation of polders and to enlarge the extent of the Wellington island of Cochin port. The lake faces a major ecological crisis and has reduced to 37 per cent of its original area, as a result of land reclamation. [citation needed]"
Cities
Over 1.6 million people live on the banks of the Vembanad lake and are directly or indirectly dependent on it for their livelihoods.[5]
"The port of Kochi (Cochin) is located at the lake's outlet to the Arabian Sea. The town of Alappuzha (also known as Allepey), sometimes called the ""Venice of the East"" for its large network of canals that meander through the town - is sandwiched between the lake and the Arabian sea."
"Vembanad Lake is at the heart of Kerala Backwaters tourism with hundreds of kettuvallams plied on it and numerous resorts on its banks. The Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary is located on the east coast of the lake. The lake has become a major tourist attraction. A generally safe destination, this place had just one incident of tourist harassment in 2004 as reported in The Times of India.[6]"
Inland transport
"The Vembanad Wetland system has formed an intricate network of estuaries, lagoons and canals which spans over 196 km in the north-south and 29 km in the east-west directions. Almost all villages in these areas can be accessed via water transport. The major rivers of Muvattupuzha, Meenachil, Pamba and Achencovil rivers, are all navigable up to distances of about 30 km upstream in the tidal reach. The Kottappuram-Kollam segment of the west coast canal system has a major chunk passing through the Vembanad Lake and spans a total of 209 km. It has been declared as a National Waterway."
Ecological importance
"Vembanad Kol Wetland was included in the list of wetlands of international importance, as defined by the Ramsar Convention for the conservation and sustainable utilization of wetlands.[7] It is home to more than 20,000 waterfowls - the third largest such population in India. It is also an ideal habitat for shrimps.[8] Major livelihood activities of the people living on the shores of the lake include agriculture, fishing, tourism, inland navigation, coir retting, lime shell collection. The uncontrolled mining of shells from the lake bed is also posing a threat to the eco-system. The sewage effluents and the heavy load of organic material released from the neighboring areas including a medical college at Alappuzha is let into the water and are responsible for the decrease in dissolved oxygen content in the water in the water body."
Boat capsize
"On July 27, 2002, twenty-nine people were killed when an overcrowded boat capsized in the Vembanad lake. The boat was a daily ferry service which connects Muhamma village on the west coast to Kumarakom on the east.[9]"
"Sukhna Lake Chandigarh, India"
"Sunset view at Sukhna Lake, Chandigarh, India"
"Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh, India, is a reservoir at the foothills of the Himalayas, the Shivalik hills. This 3 km² rainfed lake was created in 1958 by damming the Sukhna Choe, a seasonal stream coming down from the Shivalik Hills. Originally the seasonal flow entered the lake directly causing heavy siltation. To check the inflow of silt, 25.42 km² of land was acquired in the catchment area and put under vegetation. In 1974, the Choe was diverted and made to bypass the lake completely, the lake being fed by three siltation pots, minimising the entry of silt into the lake itself.[1]"
"The lake was created by Le Corbusier and the Chief Engineer P L Verma. To preserve its tranquility Corbusier insisted that it be forbidden to motor boats and the top of the dam (promenade) prohibited to vehicular traffic. The lake is fringed by a golf course to the south, and Nek Chand's famous Rock Garden of Chandigarh to its west."
Local lore
Sukhna is an inseparable part of the city of Chandigarh. Le Corbusier had foreseen that the residents of the city would be drawn it for the 'care of the body and spirit'. The city planners were deeply attached to the lake. So much so that Pierre Jeanneret's ashes were immersed in the lake in 1970 as per his wishes by his niece.
"Sukhna is a sanctuary for many exotic migratory birds like the Siberian duck, Storks and Cranes, during the winter months. The lake has been declared as a protected national wetland by the Government of India."
Development and Maintenance
The Mera Chandigarh administration has made a decision not to allow fish more than 30 cm in size in the Sukhna Lake [3]
Chandigarh Administration has finalized new plan for Sukhna Lake and New Lake in Sector 42 with Rs 2.73 crore which has also been received from Union Government.B.A.[4]
Problems
"The lake is facing serious issues like weed overgrowth,[5] catchment adequacy[6] and silting[7] that are significantly shrinking its size and depth. A project team, under Parasu Ram Mishra, was deployed to address the issue and take remedial measures, which halted the sedimentation, for a while.[8] Additionally, it has become the subject of litigation between the Chandigarh and Punjab.[9][10]"
"Silting has taken its toll and the volume of the lake has been reduced to 56% of its original. The lake is shrinking rapidly due to siltation and lack of inflow.[11] It was initially hoped that the work of desilting could be undertaken in summers at a war footing and dry dredging could be undertaken at a fraction of cost to save Sukhna in the coming years. Unfortunately, the ground realities seem to be different. Due to heavy rain in August and September Sukhna was filled up again and flood gates were being opened.[5][6][7][10][12]"
Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh
"Kanjia lake is a natural lake on the northern outskirts of Bhubaneswar, Odisha. While the main lake consist of 75 hectares (190 acres), the total wetland covers an area of 105 hectares (260 acres) with the scuba diving facility.[1] It has rich biodiversity, and is a wetland of national importance which is helpful for maintaining the city's ecology.[2][1] The lake ecosystem consist of 37 species of birds, 20 species of reptiles, 10 species of amphibians, 46 species of fishes and 3 species of prawns, 10 species of sub-merged macrophytes, 14 species of floating macrophytes and 24 species of emergent macrophytes.[3] The lake is facing threat from uncontrolled quarrying, dumping of solid waste and haphazard real estate construction on its fringe areas.[4][1][5] The lake constitute a part of the Nandankanan Zoological Park, and is used for recreational boating by the visitors."
Reservoirs
Low Altitude Lakes
Mid Altitude Lakes
"Khajjiar, Chamba"
High Altitude Lakes
"In the Shimla area lie the small rain water fed lakes of Tani Jubbar, Kunihar and Karwali that lies of the Choti Shali Peak. There are several natural ponds in the area-one lies below New Shimla and there is another between Mashobra and Carignano.[1]"
"Renuka lake is in the Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh in India and it is 672 m above the sea level. It is the largest lake in Himachal Pradesh, with a circumference of about 3214 m. This lake was named after the goddess Renuka. It is well connected by the road. Boating is available on the lake. A lion safari and a zoo are there at Renuka. It is the site of an annual fair held in November."
Distance from Parwanoo: 123 km. Distance from Paonta Sahib: via satuan 51 km Distance from Nahan: 38 km.[1]
History of Renuka Fair
"On the eve of Prabodhini Ekadashi, the Five day long International level Shri Renuka Ji fair begins with the arrival of son Lord Parshuram at Shri Renuka Ji the Lake in Himachal, the home of his divine mother Shri Renuka Ji. During five day fair several lakhs of devotees from all over the country arrives here to witness the holy occasion of divine meeting of Lord Parshum &his mother Renuka Ji ."
Sanctuary
The sanctuary is situated in Sirmour district in Himachal Pradesh. The sanctuary is well connected by the network of motorable roads. The total area of the sanctuary is about 4.028 km². The entire sanctuary consists of Renuka Reserve Forest and has been declared as Abhayaranya. An area of roughly about 3 km² that lies outside the sanctuary has been declared as a buffer belt.
Threats
"The lake is threatened by continuously shrinking size. The silt which is being deposited in the lake is causing a worry to the locals and the administration. The main cause of this is the soil being deposited on the banks, with the rain water and landslides in the nearby mountains. Also the waste of construction material is being dumped into the lake for years, which is a big threat to the environment. Administration and Renuka Vikas Smiti is trying its best to protect the lake. Plastic bags are banned in the entire region."
"Kareri Lake (also known as Kumarwah Lake) is a high altitude, shallow, fresh water lake south of the Dhauladhar range approximately 9 km North West of Dharamsala in Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh. Its surface is 2934 metres above the sea level. Snow melting from the Dhauladhar range serves as the source of the lake and a stream, Nyund is the outflow. Since the source is fresh melting snow and the lake is shallow, water visibility is very high and in most places, the lake bed can be seen."
"Kareri lake is best known for being a trekking destination in the Dhauladhars. The lake remains frozen from early December to March–April. There is a temple dedicated to Lord Shiva and Shakti on a hilltop overlooking the lake.. A few gaddi kothis are present on the other side of the lake, an area which is used by the gaddis as a grazing ground for their animals. Kareri Lake serves as a base for trekking further into the Dhauladhar and onward to Chamba and Bharmour via the Minkiani Pass (4250m) and Baleni Pass (3710m)."
"Kareri Lake is named after the nearby gaddi village of Kareri, situated 9 km south east of the lake."
"Kareri Lake is not connected by a road. The closest roadhead is at Kareri (also known as Kareri Village), a village near Dharamshala. A 9km dirt road links Kareri to the nearest town, Ghera. Footpaths also connect Kareri to Ghera and are a bit shorter (5km). Ghera is accessed either by shared jeep from Dharamsala (17km, about one hour) or on foot from Naddi (about 2km by forest trails). As such, Kareri can be reached on foot from Mcleodganj, but its a bit too long for a return day hike. Most people who visit Kareri stay overnight in preparation for the hike to Kareri lake."
Kareri Lake
The Anasāgar Lake.
"Ana Sagar Lake is an artificial lake situated in the city of Ajmer in Rajasthan state in India. It was built by Arnoraja (Ana), the grandfather of Prithviraj Chauhan, in 1135 -1150 AD and is named after him. The catchments were built with the help of local populace. The lake is spread over 13 Kilometers. The Baradari or pavilions were built by Shahjahan in 1637 and Daulat Bagh Gardens by Jehangir. There is a Circuit house on a hill near the lake that used to be British Residency. There is an island in the center of the lake which is accessible by boat. Boats could be hired from the east side of the Dault Bagh. There are Chowaptty and Jetty walkway next to each other and Baradari to capture the scenic of the lake. The lake is the biggest one in Ajmer, with the maximum catchments area (5 square km built up area). The maximum depth of lake is 4.4 m with storage capacity of 4.75 million cubic meter. The Rajasthan High Court has banned construction in the catchment areas of the lake basins."
"Legend of Auliya Moinuddin Chisti When the Muslim saint Moinuddin Chisti arrived in Ajmer, he and his followers were banned from using water from Ana Sagar. He requested to get a cup of water that was granted. When the cup was filled the water of the lake got dried up miraculously. People requested to return the water, the saint gracefully did so. Since then Moinuddin Chisty got multitude of followers."
List of Lake In India
Rabindra Sarobar (Bengali: রবীন্দ্র সরবর) (previously known as Dhakuria Lake) is an artificial lake in south Kolkata in the Indian state of West Bengal.
"The name also refers to the area surrounding the lake. It is flanked by Southern Avenue to the North, Rashbehari Avenue(Russa Road) to the West, Dhakuria to the East and the Kolkata Suburban Railway tracks to the south."
"In the early 1920s, the Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT), a body responsible for developmental work in the Kolkata metropolitan area, acquired about 192 acres (0.78 km2) of marshy jungles. Their intention was to develop the area for residential use – improving the roads, raising and levelling some of the adjacent land and building lakes and parks. Excavation work was undertaken with the plan of creating a huge lake. Originally known as Dhakuria Lake, in May 1958, CIT renamed the lake as Rabindra Sarovar, as a tribute to the great Bengali writer and Nobel Laureate, Rabindranath Tagore."
"The area around this excavated lake was later developed to build recreational complexes, which included children's parks, gardens and auditoria."
Landmarks
"To the north is a football stadium, known as the Rabindra Sarobar Stadium, with a seating capacity of approximately 26,000 people. It was established in the 1950s and is today, the city's first stadium to be fully equipped with audio-visual training facilities. Also to the north is the open-air theatre, Mukta Mancha. The only Japanese Buddhist temple in Kolkata is located on the southern fringe of the Rabindra Sarovar. It was established in 1935 by Nichidatsu Fujii, founder of the worldwide Buddhist association, the Nipponzan Myohoji. Monks offer prayers in Japanese, to the sound of beating drums, in the early morning hours and at dusk. There are no restrictions on entry to the main temple even when prayers are in progress. Outside the main temple building there is a pillar, with a message of peace engraved in Japanese, and a pair of lions that symbolise the guardians of the faith. The Japanese refer to these figures as Komainu (lion-dog). There is a mosque on one of the lake's islands, which predates the excavation of the lake itself. This island is connected to the southern shore by a cable-stayed wooden (now iron) suspension bridge, which was built in 1926 and renovated in 1962. The fish sanctuary under this bridge is an additional attraction. There are some cannons lying on the lake's west bank that were found during the excavation in the early 1920s and retained by the CIT for beautification. It is believed that they were used by Nawab Siraj-ud-daulah, the last independent ruler of Bengal. The complex contains a safari garden and children's play center with a lily pool, and a swimming pool. A toy train, operational between 1985 and 1989, was a popular draw for children. A number of rowing and swimming clubs are situated within the Rabindra Sarovar complex. While the former are located to the north of this lake, the latter are located to its south. In 1858 the British founded the Calcutta Rowing Club (CRC), presently one of the oldest clubs in India, to promote rowing activities in Kolkata. In 1901, it got affiliated to the prestigious Amateur Rowing Association of the East (ARAE) and in 1923 signed a reciprocal arrangement deal with the London Rowing Club. The CRC has been the hub of competitive rowing in Kolkata for more than 150 years and has organised many intra- and inter-club competitions. Rowing facilities are available to members on a regular basis, from 6 am to 7:30 am and from 3:30 pm to 5 pm. The Bengal Rowing Club, Lake Club and Calcutta University Rowing Club are a few other rowing clubs located in the Rabindra Sarovar complex. One of the most prestigious and oldest swimming clubs in Kolkata, the Indian Life Saving Society (formerly known as Anderson Club) has its office in the lake complex. The lake is within walking distance of the Ramakrishna Mission at Golpark. There is an auditorium or a hall within the sarovar complex which adjoins the Rabindra Sarovar Stadium. Its name is Pavilion Hall."
Degradation
"Like a majority of artificial lakes in the country, Rabindra Sarovar is suffering environmental degradation. Water pollution is on the rise, owing to an increase in tourist flow and habitation around the lake. The Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, has recently included this lake under the National Lake Conservation Plan in the hope that this will help preserve it. The local authorities have also begun an extensive tree plantation programme."
Rabindra Sarovar is 30 km away from Dum Dum airport and 12 km from the Howrah railway station.
"National Lake Conservation Development Committee (NLCDC) is government body of Nepal who is responsible for the development of lakes, pond and daha under Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation (Nepal).[1]"
Objectives
"Kolari railway station, July 2007 (with a pair of VR Dv12 diesel locomotives at the station's one platform)"
VR Class Dv12 locomotives at Kolari
"Kolari railway station is located in the municipality of Kolari in the Lapland Province of Finland. It is the northernmost railway station in Finland, located 1,067.2 kilometres (663.1 mi) north of Helsinki Central railway station (via Oulu, Seinäjoki and Haapamäki stations)."
"Kolari station is the terminus of the track from Tornio to Kolari, and serves both passenger and cargo traffic. Passenger traffic is at its highest during the skiing season and, as well as Kolari, the station also serves Levi, Ylläs, Äkäslompolo, Pallas and Muonio, all of which can be reached by bus from the station. For part of the year, the station is also served by car transporter trains from Helsinki, Turku and Tampere. During the most active season, trains to Kolari include a VR Group club car, offering a nightclub during the trip."
"A new station building was constructed at Kolari in 2000, in the style of a Lappish hut. Most trains (both freight and passenger) at Kolari are hauled by VR Class Dr16 diesel locomotives, with smaller Dv12 locomotives also seeing use."
2004 carnival
2011 carnival
2014 carnival
"The Helsinki Samba Carnaval is an annual samba carnival held in Helsinki, the capital of Finland, since 1991."
"The carnival takes place on the weekend in early to middle June, normally close to the Helsinki Day on 12 June. Unlike the Rio Carnival, it is not possible to hold the carnival in January through March, because like many other places in northern Europe, the outdoor temperature in Helsinki is far too low at that time."
"The carnival lacks a proper historical tradition. It mostly grew from experimenting and organising, but was still influenced by Brazilian traditions. In 2007, Tarja Halonen, President of Finland at the time, participated in the event."
"Helsinki (/hɛlˈsɪŋki/; Finnish pronunciation: [ˈhelsiŋki] ( listen); Swedish: Helsingfors) is the capital and largest city of Finland. It is in the region of Uusimaa, in southern Finland, on the shore of the Gulf of Finland. Helsinki has a population of 629,512,[3] an urban population of 1,214,210,[7] and a metropolitan population of over 1.4 million, making it the most populous municipality and urban area in Finland. Helsinki is located some 80 kilometres (50 mi) north of Tallinn, Estonia, 400 km (250 mi) east of Stockholm, Sweden, and 388 km (241 mi) west of Saint Petersburg, Russia. Helsinki has close historical connections with these three cities."
"Hawa Mahal, the ""Palace of Winds"", in Jaipur"
Lake palace in Udaipur
"Umaid Bhavan Palace, Jodhpur"
"The Indian state of Rajasthan is famous for historic havelis, forts and palaces. Some of these are:"
Jaipur district
"Alsisar Haveli, Jaipur. Former residence of Shekhawat thakur (landed noble), today a hotel. Amber Palace (Amber Fort). Former royal residence, Jaipur. Bissau Palace, Jaipur.Former residence of Shekhawat Rawal (landed noble),Oldest Heritage Hotel of Jaipur. *Samode Palace, Jaipur. Former residence of the thakurs (landed noble) of Samode, today a hotel. City Palace, Jaipur. Seat of the Maharaja of Jaipur. Now a museum. Samode Haveli, Jaipur. Former residence of a prime minister of Jaipur, today a hotel. Rambagh Palace, Jaipur.- Former royal residence, today a hotel. Jai Mahal, Jaipur. Former royal residence, today a hotel. Jal Mahal, Jaipur. Hawa Mahal (Palace of Winds), Jaipur. Former royal residence. Now a museum. Narain Niwas Palace, Jaipur. Former residence of the thakurs (landed noble) of Kanota, today a hotel. Raj Mahal Palace, Jaipur. Former royal residence, today a hotel."
Udaipur district
Bikaner district
Jodhpur district
Other districts
Rambagh Palace
Courtyard
"The Rambagh Palace in Jaipur, Rajasthan is the former residence of the Maharaja of Jaipur and now a hotel, located 5 miles (8.0 km) outside the walls of the city of Jaipur on Bhawani Singh Road."
"The first building on the site was a garden house built in 1835 for the wet nurse of prince Ram Singh II.[1] In 1887, during the reign of Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh, it was converted into a modest royal hunting lodge, as the house was located in the midst of a thick forest at that time. In the early 20th century, it was expanded into a palace to the designs of Sir Samuel Swinton Jacob.[2] Maharajah Sawai Man Singh II made Rambagh his principal residence and added a number of royal suites in 1931.[3] After India became independent and the princely states united, the Palace became the Government House. By the 1950s, the royal family felt that the upkeep of the palace and its 47 acres (190,000 m2) of gardens was becoming very costly. Therefore, in 1957[3] they decided to convert it into a luxury hotel.[3]"
Sep 2009 it was rated as the best hotel in the world by Conde Nast Traveller magazine.
Notes
References
This is a list of attractions in Jaipur city in Rajasthan state in India.
Palaces and forts
Gardens
Museums
Others
Festivals
Elephant Festival Gangaur
See Also
"The town of Bundi is situated 35 km from Kota and 210 km from Jaipur. It is located at 25°26′N 75°38′E﻿ / ﻿25.44°N 75.64°E﻿ / 25.44; 75.64 and an average elevation of 268 metres (879 feet). The city lies near a narrow gorge, and is surrounded on three sides by hills of the Aravalli Range. A substantial wall with four gateways encircles the city. It is served by Bundi railway station on Kota-Chittorgarh rail line. The town of Indragarh and nearby places are famous for the renowned temples of Bijasan Mata and Kamleshwar. The Indargarh step well is considered as one of the most attractive places in the Bundi district, especially during the rainy season."
"In the 2001 Indian census,[2] Bundi had a population of 88,312. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Bundi has an average literacy rate of 67%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with male literacy of 75% and female literacy of 57%. 14% of the population is under 6 years of age. In the 2011 Indian census Bundi has a population of 104,457 [1] people."
"In ancient times, the area around Bundi was apparently inhabited by various local tribes. Bundi and the eponymous princely state are said to derive their names from a former Meena tribe man called Bunda Meena. Bundi was previously called ""Bunda-Ka-Nal"", Nal meaning ""narrow ways"". Later the region was governed by Rao Deva Hada, who took over Bundi from Jaita Meena in 1342, and established a princely state Bundi, renaming the surrounding area called Hadoti, the land of great Hada Rajputs."
Tourist attractions
"The Taragarh Fort, or 'Star Fort' is the most impressive of the city's structures. It was constructed in AD 1354 upon the top of steep hillside overlooking the city. The largest of its battlements is the 16th century bastion known as the Bhim Burj, on which was once mounted a particularly large cannon called Garbh Gunjam, or 'Thunder from the Womb'. The fort is a popular tourist viewpoint of the city below. The fort contains three tanks which never dry up. The technique with which they were built has been long since lost but the tanks survive as a testament to the advanced methods of construction and engineering in medieval India. The Bundi Palace is situated on the hillside adjacent to the Taragarh Fort and is notable for its lavish traditional murals and frescoes. The Chitrashala (picture gallery) of the palace is open to the general public. The largest of Bundi's baoris or stepwells is the intricately carved Raniji ki Baori. Some 46 m deep, it was built in 1699 by Rani Nathavatji. The steps built into the sides of the water-well made water accessible even when at a very low level. The baori is one of the largest examples of its kind in Rajasthan. The Nawal Sagar is a large square-shaped artificial lake in the centre of Bundi containing many small islets. A temple dedicated to Varuna, the vedic god of water, stands half-submerged in the middle of the lake. the lake feeds the numerous bavdis in the old city by creating an artificial water table. The Nagar Sagar twin step wells are identical step wells crafted in pristine masonry on either side of the main spine of Bundi town. The Dabhai Kund also known as the jail kund, is the largest of the kunds in Bundi. Though slightly overgrown, it is well worth a visit for the spectacular carvings on the numerous steps leading down to the water level. The Sukh Mahal is a cream-coloured palace that sits on the water bank. Rudyard Kipling stayed there and claimed that the palace inspired his masterpiece, Kim. Jait Sagar Lake Phool Sagar Kshar Bagh Chaurasi Khambon ki Chhatri, Bundi or Eighty four pillared cenotaph"
The Stepwells
"There are over 50 stepwells in Bundi, of which only a handful have been maintained. They used to be the only source of water for the town until a piped water system was introduced. After that, these stepwells were abandoned and the monuments fell into disrepair. Most of the former stepwells inside the town have become refuse dumps, and are slipping out of the public consciousness. The Raniji ki Baori is a noted well-maintained stepwell."
Festivals of Bundi 1. Kajali Teej 2. The Gangaur Festival 3. Bundi Festival started by Rajmata Sahiba Daulat Kanwar Of Dugari & Shri Madhukarji Gupta which was inaugurated by Shreeji Arvind Singh Mewar & Kunwar Shivam Singh Dugari in !998
"Jhalawar district (Rajasthani: झालावाड जिल्हा) is one of the 33 districts of Rajasthan state in western India. The district is bounded on the northwest by Kota district, on the northeast by Baran district, on the east by Guna district of Madhya Pradesh state, on the south by Rajgarh and Shajapur districts of Madhya Pradesh state and on the west by Ratlam, Mandsaur and Nimach districts of Madhya Pradesh state. The district occupies an area of 6928 km². The district is part of Kota division. The historical city of Jhalawar is the administrative headquarters of the district."
Origin of name
"The name of the district is derived from the erstwhile princely state of Jhalawar (which literally means the abode of the Jhalas, a Rajput clan)."
"The territory of the present district belonged to the princely state of Jhalawar till India's independence in 1947. This princely state was carved out from another princely state of Kota on April 8, 1838 by a treaty between the British and the rulers of Kota state."
"The district lies in the Hadoti region in southeast Rajasthan, on the edge of Malwa Plateau. The Kali Sindh River flows northward through the center of the district."
Economy
In 2006 the Ministry of Panchayati Raj named Jhalawar one of the country's 250 most backward districts (out of a total of 640).[1] It is one of the twelve districts in Rajasthan currently receiving funds from the Backward Regions Grant Fund Programme (BRGF).[1]
"According to the 2011 census Jhalawar district has a population of 1,411,327,[2] roughly equal to the nation of Swaziland[3] or the US state of Hawaii.[4] This gives it a ranking of 349th in India (out of a total of 640).[2] The district has a population density of 227 inhabitants per square kilometre (590/sq mi) .[2] Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 19.57%.[2] Jhalawar has a sex ratio of 945 females for every 1000 males,[2] and a literacy rate of 62.13%.[2]"
"Jhalawar district is home to many tribes, including Gurjars, Meenas and Bhils."
Jhalawar district
Kota District is a district of the state of Rajasthan in western India. The city of Kota is the administrative headquarters of the district.
"During the period around 12th century AD, Rao Deva,a Hada Chieftain conquered the territory and founded Bundi and Hadoti. In the early 17th century AD, during the reign of the Mughal Emperor Jahangir, the ruler of Bundi -Rao Ratan Singh, gave the smaller principality of Kota to his son, Madho Singh. Since then Kota became a hallmark of the Rajput gallantry and culture. In Pre Independence days social activist Guru Radha Kishan worked here along with other prominent freedom fighters and organised people against insane policies of the government. He left Kota after local administration came to know about the arrest warrant issued against him for his activities for freedom movement."
"The district is bounded on the north by Bundi District, on the east by Baran District, on the south by Jhalawar District, and on the west by Chittorgarh District. It is renowned for its IIT JEE preparation as well as medical exams preparation . It is now the hub of educational institutions and is home to Asia's biggest manufacturer of fertilizer."
Location of Kota district in Rajasthan
"According to the 2011 census Kota district has a population of 1,950,491,[1] roughly equal to the nation of Lesotho[2] or the US state of New Mexico.[3] This gives it a ranking of 239th in India (out of a total of 640).[1] The district has a population density of 374 inhabitants per square kilometre (970/sq mi) .[1] Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 24.35%.[1] Kota has a sex ratio of 906 females for every 1000 males,[1] and a literacy rate of 77.48%.[1]"
"Shiv Niwas Palace is a former residence of the Maharana of Udaipur, Rajasthan, located on the banks of Lake Pichola."
Guesthouse
"Located to the south side of and part of the City Palace complex, work on this building was begun by Maharana Sajjan Shambhu Singh (1874 to 1884) and finished by his successor Maharana Fateh Singh at the beginning of the 20th century as a royal guesthouse."
"During its time as a guesthouse it hosted a number of royal gatherings and VIP visits from all over the world, including George V of the United Kingdom in 1905, and Edward the Prince of Wales."
"By the time that Bhagwat Singh succeeded to the throne of Mewar in 1955, it was becoming increasing difficult for the royal family to afford the cost of maintaining the large numbers of royal residences that they owned, in particular the city palace. Following his success in converting the Lake Palace into an income generating hotel he decided to also convert the Shiv Niwas and the smaller Fateh Prakash Palace into luxury heritage hotels. After a 4 year long period of conversion the Shiv Niwas opened as a hotel in 1982.[1]"
Hotel
"The 3 levels of the palace are arranged in a semicircular arc around an internal courtyard in the middle of which is a marble pool.[2] Balconies and rooftop terraces opening off different rooms enjoy views to the south of the gardens laid below the dam wall of Lake Pichola; while to the west, the island resorts of Jag Mandir and the Lake Palace. The building is of ancient Rajput architectural styles. The interior features ivory and mother-of-pearl inlay work, glass mosaics and frescoes, many of them produced by Khaja Ustadh and Kundan Lal, whom the Maharana had sent to England to learn the art of glass-mosaic design and to study fresco painting.[3]"
"When first built the palace had nine suites, all on the ground floor. During its conversion into a hotel, eight apartments were added in a new second story so that the hotel now has 36 guest rooms consisting of:[4]"
"Since its conversion into a hotel it has played host to, among others, Queen Elizabeth II, the King of Nepal, the Shah of Iran, and Jacqueline Kennedy."
The palace was featured in the James Bond movie Octopussy.
Literature
Further reading
"Mehrangarh Fort (Hindi: मेहरानगढ़ का दुर्ग) (Sindhi: مهراڻ ڳڙهه‎), located in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, is one of the largest forts in India. Built around 1460 by Rao Jodha, the fort is situated 410 feet (125 m) above the city and is enclosed by imposing thick walls. Inside its boundaries there are several palaces known for their intricate carvings and expensive courtyards. A winding road leads to and from the city below. The imprints of cannonball hits by attacking armies of Jaipur can still be seen on the second gate. To the left of the fort is the chhatri of Kirat Singh Soda, a soldier who fell on the spot defending the Mehrangarh fort."
"There are seven gates, which include Jayapol (meaning 'victory'), built by Maharaja Man Singh to commemorate his victories over Jaipur and Bikaner armies. Fattehpol (also meaning 'victory') gate was built by Maharaja Ajit Singh to mark the defeat of the Mughals. The palm imprints upon these still attract much attention."
"The museum in the Mehrangarh fort is one of the most well-stocked museums in Rajasthan. In one section of the fort museum there is a selection of old royal palanquins, including the elaborate domed gilt Mahadol palanquin which was won in a battle from the Governor of Gujarat in 1730. The museum exhibits the heritage of the Rathores in arms, costumes, paintings and decorated period rooms."
"Rao Jodha, the chief of the Rathore clan, is credited with the origin of Jodhpur in India. He founded Jodhpur in 1459 (Jodhpur was previously known as Marwar). He was one of Ranmal's 24 sons and became the fifteenth Rathore ruler. One year after his accession to the throne, Jodha decided to move his capital to the safer location of Jodhpur, as the one thousand years old Mandore fort was no longer considered to provide sufficient security."
"With the trusted aid of Rao Nara (son of Rao Samra), the Mewar forces were subdued at Mandore. With that, Rao Jodha gave Rao Nara the title of Diwan. With the help of Rao Nara, the foundation of the fort was laid on 1/ May 1459[1] by Jodha on a rocky hill 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) to the south of Mandore. This hill was known as Bhaurcheeria, the mountain of birds. According to legend to build the fort he had to displace the hill's sole human occupant, a hermit called Cheeria Nathji, the lord of birds. Upset at being forced to move Cheeria Nathji cursed Rao Jodha with ""Jodha! May your citadel ever suffer a scarcity of water!"". Rao Jodha managed to appease the hermit by building a house and a temple in the fort very near the cave the hermit had used for meditation, though only to the extent that even today the area is plagued by a drought every 3 to 4 years. Jodha then took an extreme measure to ensure that the new site proved propitious; he buried a man called ""Raja Ram Meghwal"" alive in the foundations. ""Raja Ram Meghwal"" was promised that in return his family would be looked after by the Rathores. To this day his descendants still live in Raj Bagh, ""Raja Ram Meghwal's"" Garden, an estate bequeathed them by Jodha."
Kilkila cannon
Galleries in Mehrangarh Museum
Elephant's howdahs
"Mahadol, the Palanquin at Mehrangarh Museum"
Palanquins
Palanquins were a popular means of travel and circumambulation for the ladies of the nobility up to the second quarter of the 20th century. They were also used by male nobility and royals on special occasions.
"Folio from the Shiva Purana at Mehrangarh Museum, c. 1828."
The Chamunda Mataji Temple
Chamunda Devi Temple
"The Chamunda Mataji was Rao Jodha's favorite goddess, he brought her idol from the old capital of Mandore in 1460 and installed her in Mehrangarh (Maa Chamunda was the kul devi of Parihar rulers of Mandore). She remains the Maharaja's and the Royal Family's Isht Devi or adopted goddess and is worshipped by most of Jodhpur's citizens as well. Crowds throng Mehrangarh during the Dussehra celebrations."
Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park
"Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park, spreads over 72 hectares, adjoining Mehrangarh Fort. The park contains ecologically restored desert and arid land vegetation.[5][6] The park was created in 2006 to try and restore the natural ecology of a large, rocky area adjoining and below the fort and opened to the public in February 2011. The area in and around the park contains distinctive volcanic rock formations such as rhyolite, with welded tuff, and breccia, sandstone formations. The park includes a Visitors Centre with Interpretation Gallery, a native plant nursery, small shop and cafe."
2008 Stampede
"A human stampede occurred on 30 September 2008, at the Chamunda Devi temple inside of the Mehrangarh Fort, in which 249 people were killed and more than 400 injured.[7]"
"The fort has musicians performing folk music at the entrance and houses museum, restaurants, exhibitions, and craft bazaars.[8] The fort was one of the filming locations for the 2012 movie The Dark Knight Rises.[9] Principal photography commenced on 6 May 2011.[10][11] The Emraan Hashmi starrer Awarapan was also shot here.[12] In 2015, the fort was used to record a collaborative album by musicians including Israeli composer Shye Ben Tzur, English composer and Radiohead guitarist Jonny Greenwood, and Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich. The recording was the subject of a documentary, Junun, by the American director Paul Thomas Anderson.[13][14]"
"Balsamand Lake is a lake situated 5 km from Jodhpur on Jodhpur-Mandore Road. This lake is a popular picnic spot, built in 1159 AD by Gurjara-Pratihara rulers. It was designed as a water reservoir to provide water to Mandore. The lake has a length of one km, breadth of 50 m and a depth of 15 m."
"The Balsamand Lake Palace was built later as a summer palace on its shore. The lake is surrounded by lush green gardens that house groves of trees like mango, papaya, pomegranate, guava and plum. Animals and birds like the jackal and peacock also call this place home."
List of lakes in India
Roof Terrace of the Fort
Jaipur city from Nahargarh Fort
"Nahargarh Fort stands on the edge of the Aravalli Hills, overlooking the pink city of Jaipur in the Indian state of Rajasthan. The view of the city from the fort is impressive."
"Along with Amer Fort and Jaigarh Fort, Nahargarh once formed a strong defense ring for the city. The fort was originally named Sudarshangarh, but it became known as Nahargarh, which means 'abode of tigers'. The popular belief is that Nahar here stands for Nahar Singh Bhomia,[1] whose spirit haunted the place and obstructed construction of the fort.[2] Nahar's spirit was pacified by building a temple in his memory within the fort, which thus became known by his name.[3]"
"Built mainly in 1734 by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II, the founder of Jaipur, the fort was constructed as a place of retreat on the summit of the ridge above the city. Walls extended over the surrounding hills, forming fortifications that connected this fort to Jaigarh, the fort above the old capital of Amber. Though the fort never came under attack during the course of its history, it did see some historical events, notably the treaties with the Maratha forces who warred with Jaipur in the 18th century.[4] During the Indian Mutiny of 1857, the Europeans of the region, including the British Resident's wife, were moved to Nahargarh fort by the king of Jaipur, Sawai Ram Singh, for their protection.[5]"
"The fort was extended in 1868 during the reign of Sawai Ram Singh. In 1883-92, a range of palaces was built at Nahargarh by Sawai Madho Singh at a cost of nearly three and a half lakh rupees.[6] The Madhavendra Bhawan, built by Sawai Madho Singh had suites for the queens of Jaipur and at the head was a suite for the king himself. The rooms are linked by corridors and still have some delicate frescoes. Nahargarh was also a hunting residence of the Maharajas.[7]"
"Until April 1944, the Jaipur State government used for its official purposes solar time read from the Samrat Yantra in the Jantar Mantar Observatory, with a gun fired from Nahargarh Fort as the time signal."
view from Nahargarh Fort
Nahargarh Fort view
"Sanganer is a town situated 16 km south of Jaipur, the capital of Indian state of Rajasthan. It is famous for textile printing, handmade paper industry, and for Jain temples. Sanganer prints are one of its own kinds, for the reason that patterns in bright colours are always printed on white backgrounds. Sanganeri Hand block printing received the geographical indication (GI) tag in 2010.[1]"
"The handmade paper industry began with the idea of Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II in 1728. Around 10 handmade paper industries are present in Sanganer. Krishan Lal Balmiki the member of Rajya Sabha, was also from Sanganer (born 10 July 1942, died 21 April 2010). Sanganer is also a legislative assembly of Rajasthan and current MLA of Sanganer is Mr. Ghanshyam Tiwari he won with highest margin in Rajasthan Assembly election 2013 with a difference of 65350 votes."
"The nearby located is one of the biggest Rajasthan housing board colony, Pratap Nagar. EPIP (Export Promotion Industrial Park) Sitapura is also located in this place. Muhana and Muhana Mandi is 6 km from town."
Infrastructure
"Jaipur Airport is located in Sanganer. Ch Charan Singh National Institute of Agricultural Marketing (NIAM) and Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) are two institutes located in Sanganer. Janki Devi School, GD Goyanka school, Narayana Hridaliya Hospital and Dolphin School in Sanganer Pratap Nagar."
Places of historical importance
"Shri Digamber Jain Atishya Kshetra Mandir, Sanghiji"
"Sanganer is a famous pilgrimage town for the Jain community because of a very ancient Jain temple made of red stone. The ancient Shri Digamber Jain temple of Sanganer is 16 km from Jaipur. In this temple the principal deity is the Lord Adinath (Rishabh Dev); the first tirthankara are supposed to be 4000 years old.[2] The ancient Shri Digambara Jain temple of Sanganer has fine carvings that are comparable to the Dilwara Temples of Mount Abu that are built in many phases. The last phase of this temple was completed in the 10th century A.D., according to inscription of V.S. 1011 in one of the Toranas. It has sky-high shikharas and the inner sanctum is a stone shrine with sky-high eight shikharas (pinnacles)."
"Hawa Mahal (English translation: ""Palace of Winds"" or ""Palace of the Breeze"") is a palace in Jaipur, India, so named because it was essentially a high screen wall built so the women of the royal household could observe street festivals while unseen from the outside. Constructed of red and pink sandstone, the palace sits on the edge of the City Palace, and extends to the zenana, or women's chambers."
"Hawa Mahal and the principal street, c. 1875"
"The structure was built in 1799 by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh. He was so intimidated and inspired by unique structure of Khetri Mahal and he built the grand and historical Hawa Mahal. It was designed by Lal Chand Ustad in the form of the crown of Krishna, the Hindu god. Its unique five-storey exterior is akin to the honeycomb of a beehive with its 953 small windows called jharokhas decorated with intricate latticework.[1] The original intention of the lattice was to allow royal ladies to observe everyday life in the street below without being seen, since they had to obey strict ""purdah"" (face cover). The lattice also allows cool air from the Venturi effect (doctor breeze) through the intricate pattern, air conditioning the whole area during the high temperatures in summers.[1][2][3]"
"In 2006, restoration and renovation works on the Mahal were undertaken, after a gap of 50 years, to give a face lift to the monument at an estimated cost of Rs 4568 million.[4] The corporate sector lent a hand to preserve the historical monuments of Jaipur and the Unit Trust of India has adopted Hawa Mahal to maintain it.[5] The palace is an extended part of a huge complex. The stone-carved screens, small casements and arched roofs are some of the features of this popular tourist spot. The monument also has delicately modeled hanging cornices. Like several other monuments of Jaipur, the palace is also constructed using sandstone."
"The palace is a five-storey pyramidal shaped monument that rises 50 feet (15 m) from its high base. The top three floors of the structure have a dimension of one room width while the first and second floors have patios in front of them. The front elevation, as seen from the street, is like a honeycomb web of a beehive, built with small portholes. Each porthole has miniature windows and carved sandstone grills, finials and domes. It gives the appearance of a mass of semi-octagonal bays, giving the monument its unique façade. The inner face on the back side of the building consists of need-based chambers built with pillars and corridors with minimal ornamentation, and reach up to the top floor. The interior of the Mahal has been described as ""having rooms of different coloured marbles, relieved by inlaid panels or gilding; while fountains adorn the centre of the courtyard"".[6][7]"
"The entry to the Hawa Mahal from the city palace side is through an imperial door. It opens into a large courtyard, which has double storeyed buildings on three sides, with the Hawa Mahal enclosing it on the east side. An archaeological museum is also housed in this courtyard.[9]"
Visitor information
"The palace, called a ""specimen of fanciful architecture"",[citation needed] is located to the south of the Jaipur city, at the main road intersection called the Badi Chaupad (big four square). Jaipur city is well connected by road, rail and air links with the rest of the country.[8] Jaipur Railway Station is a central main station on the broad gauge line of the Indian Railways. As well, Jaipur is connected by major roads, and by the International Airport at Sanganer, at a distance of 13 kilometres (8.1 mi) from the city."
"Entry to the Hawa Mahal is not from the front but from a side road to the rear end. Facing the Hawa Mahal, turning right and again to the first right, leads to an archway entry and then to the rear side of the building.[11]"
"It is particularly striking when viewed early in the morning, lit with the golden light of sunrise.[2][3]"
"Birla Mandir, Jaipur is a Hindu temple located in Jaipur, India and is part of one of the several Birla mandirs located all around the country. The grand temple is located on an elevated ground at the base of Moti Dungari hill in Rajasthan. The temple is sometimes also referred to as the Laxmi Narayan Temple."
"Birla Temple, Jaipur At the foot of Moti Dungri fort is the Birla Temple. This temple forms one of the major attractions of Jaipur. Birla Temple of Jaipur looks stunning, when it is brightly lit in the night. The enormous temple was built during the year 1988, by Birla Group of Industries, one of the business tycoons of India. The Temple is dedicated to Lord Vishnu (Narayan), the preserver and his consort Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth. Due to this reason, Birla Temple is also known as Laxmi Narayan Temple. Birla Mandir is constructed in the finest quality of white marble. The three huge domes of the temple represent three different approaches to the religion. The beautiful white marble temple mesmerizes the onlookers, when it glows at night. Stained glass windows depict the scenes from Hindu scriptures. Ganesh the protector of households, is above the lintel, and the fine quality of marble is evident when you enter the temple and look back at the entrance way. The images of Lakshmi and Narayan attract the attention, being made out from one piece of marble. Many of the deities of the Hindu pantheon are depicted inside the temple, and on the outside walls great historical personages and figures from all religions are shown, including Socrates, Zarathustra, Christ, Buddha, and Confucius. The Laxmi Narayan Mandir is a modern architectural marvel, surrounded by lush green gardens. The fascinating exteriors of the temple are carved splendidly with beautiful sculptures based on mythological themes, while the interiors have a large marble panel portraying mythological events."
"Jantar Mantar in Jaipur, India."
"Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, India."
"The Jantar Mantar is an equinoctial sundial, consisting a gigantic triangular gnomon with the hypotenuse parallel to the Earth's axis. On either side of the gnomon is a quadrant of a circle, parallel to the plane of the equator. The instrument is intended to measure the time of day, correct to half a second and declination of the Sun and the other heavenly bodies."
"There are five Jantar Mantar monuments in India, of which the largest is in Jaipur which features many instruments along with the world's largest stone sundial.[1] The Vrihat Samrat yantra is a sundial that can give the local time to an accuracy of 2 seconds.[2]"
"In the early 18th century, Maharaja Jai Singh II of Jaipur constructed five Jantar Mantars in total, in New Delhi, Jaipur, Ujjain, Mathura and Varanasi; they were completed between 1724 and 1735."
"The jantars have evocative names like Samrat Yantra, Jai Prakash, Ram Yantra and Niyati Chakra; each of which are used to for various astronomical calculations. The primary purpose of the observatory was to compile astronomical tables, and to predict the times and movements of the sun, moon and planets.[3]"
The Sun Dial at the Vedh Shala in Ujjain
Jantar Mantar
"The name ""Jantar Mantar"" is at least 200 years old, finding a mention in an account from 1803.[4] However, the archives of Jaipur State, such as accounts from 1735 and 1737–1738, do not use this name, referring to it simply as Jantra, which in the spoken language is corrupted to Jantar.[4] The word Jantra is derived from yantra, instrument, while the suffix Mantar is derived from mantrana meaning consult or calculate.[4] The words jantar and 'mantar (or yantra and mantra) means calculation instrument."
"Sisodia Rani Garden and Palace is a palace garden 6 kilometres (3.7 mi) from Jaipur city in of Rajasthan state in India. It was built by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II in 1728. The place consists of tiered multi-level gardens with fountains, watercourses and painted pavilions. A double-storeyed palace occupies the top terrace of the garden. The palace has many galleries, pavilions and beautiful murals depicting scenes from the life of lord Krishna. The palace lies on Jaipur Agara highway."
"Shila Devi temple, Jaipur, with the Mahavidyas on the left and the Navadurgas on the right."
"Shila Devi (Hindi: शिला देवी) is the famous idol of Durga. Her temple is located in Amer Fort in Jaipur, India. The idol was brought by Raja Man Singh I of Amber from Jessore (now in Bangladesh) in 1604 CE.[1] On the sixth day of winter Navratris, special prayers are offered to this goddess. Hundreds of thousands of people from Jaipur and surrounding areas come here to pay offerings to Shila Devi."
"From folklore it is believed, this idol was carved from the same stone as the Dashabhuja idol of the Susanga Royal Family of Durgapur (now in Bangladesh).[citation needed] The Dashabhuja idol was stolen from Susanga and lost."
HISTORY OF ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TEMPLE#
"Towards the end of sixteenth century, Maharaja Mansingh brought the statue of the goddess Shila Mata from the eastern part of Bengal. In the kingdom of Pratapaditya, Maharaja Mansingh received a defeat at the hands of king Kedar. Humiliated and depressed, the Maharaja worshipped goddess Kali to please her and receive her blessings so as to change his defeat into victory. Kali appeared in a dream to bless him. The goddess also obtained a promise from the Maharaja that he would establish her shrine in his capital. The idol of goddess was recovered from sea in the form of a Shila (Slab) and it was brought to Amer when cleaned and washed, the present idol appeared. This is why the goddess is named as Shila Mata."
"Diggi Palace now known as The Diggi Palace Hotel is an Indian royal palace located in Jaipur, Rajasthan.[1][2] It was converted into a heritage hotel, but a part is still occupied by the royal family, which also runs the hotel.[3] The annual Jaipur Literature Festival is held here since 2006.[4][5]"
"The former haveli belongs to the Thakurs (Khangarot Rajputs) of Diggi, a thikana or estate 40 km south-west from Jaipur, earlier part of the Jaipur state.[6] Each of the thakurs since its construction in 1980s, added to the present structure, which in 1991 was partly converted to a heritage hotel by the present owners Thakur Ram Pratap Singh Diggi and his wife, Jyotika Kumari Diggi.[7]"
Diggi Palace
Outside the Indian subcontinent
See also
External Links
Lal Mandir in Delhi
Shri 1008 Shantinath Digambar Jain Mandir & 27 feet Shri 1008 Munisuvratnath Bhagwan
"Shri Mahavirji Jain Temple, Rajasthan"
"Ranakpur Jain temple in Ranakpur, Rajasthan"
"Ajmer Jain Temple, Rajasthan"
"Shri parshvanath digmbar jain mandir, Jinnathpura.Jinnath pura is located at 1.5 km from the Sravanbelgola, Haasan."
"Jain temples and tirtha (pilgrimage sites) are present throughout the Indian subcontinent, many of which were built several hundred years ago. Many of these temples are classified according to Jain sects. Idols of tirthankaras are present in these temples. Many Jain temples are found in other areas of the world. This article lists and documents prominent Jain temples and Tirthas around the world."
India
"Kaila Devi Temple is a Hindu temple situated in the Kaila Devi Village of Karauli district, in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Nearest cities is Karauli (23 km), Gangapur City (34 km), Hindaun City (58 km). The temple is located on the banks of the Kalisil River, a tributary of the Banas River in the hills of Aravali."
"The temple is dedicated to the tutelary deity, Goddess Kaila Devi, of the erstwhile princely Jadon Rajput rulers of the Karauli state. It is a marble structure with a large courtyard of a checkered floor. In one place are a number of red flags planted by devotees."
Accessbility
For Kaila Devi the nearest airport is Jaipur Airport (170 km).
In summer from April to June the temperature goes up to maximum of 47 degrees C. and in winter season it comes down minimum up to 12 degrees C.
Kedar Nath Cave and Temple
Ranthambore Sanctuary
Nakkash ki Devi- Gomti Dham
Shri Mahavirji Temple
Mehandipur Balaji Temple
Barbasin Temple
Kaila Devi Temple
"Danapur (also known as Dinapur) is a satellite town of Patna in Bihar state of India.[1] The population was 182,241 at the 2011 India Census. It is part of the Patna Metropolitan Region.[2] It was constituted as a municipality in 1887.[3] Danapur is also a shelter and hatchery for the migrating Siberian cranes, locally called Janhgil. They visit every year during the monsoon season for breeding and leave this place before the start of the winter season. The Sub-Area Headquarters of Bihar and Jharkhand is situated in the army cantonment here.[4][5]"
"Flagstaff ghat on the Ganges at Dinapur, Patna, 1859 is one of the oldest ghats.[6] Gurdwara Handi Sahib, a gurdwara of Guru Tegh Bahadur, is a pilgrimage place for Sikhs. Naulakha temple and various historical buildings of British rule are places of interest."
Flagstaff ghat in 1859
It is located on the bank of the River Sone which merges with River Ganges at Digha a few kilometers from Danapur.
"According to the City development plan for Danapur, the city has a total area of 11.63 km2 and is divided into 40 wards.[1] The Danapur Nagar Parishad was established in 1889."
"As of the census of 2011, there were 182,241 with 97,129 men and 85,112 women residing in the city. Out of which 25,092 (13.77%) had children under the age of 6. There were 13,398 boys while 11,694 are girls. The population density as per 2001 data is about 113 persons/ha.[1] The overall literacy rate is 78.4%, with the male literacy rate being 84.54% and the female literacy rate being 71.39%. The sex ratio of 882 per 1000 males was lower than the national average of 944. And child sex ratio of girls is 873 per 1000 boys.[2]"
Danapur is well connected by rail and road. It is connected to most of the major cities in India by the railway network. Danapur Station (Station Code DNR) is the main railway station of the area. It is also the divisional headquarter of the Danapur Division of the East Central Railway. The town is located in the Mughalsarai – Howrah main line. National Highway no. 30 links the town to other cities of Bihar. Patna Airport is the nearest airport.
Education
Notable educational institutions of Danapur include:
"The New Yamuna Bridge, India's 3rd longest cable-stayed bridge and the iconic monument of Allahabad, attracts a considerable amount of tourists."
"Allahabad, a city in the State of Uttar Pradesh, India is an important tourist destination attracting a large number of tourists annually. Enriched with a glorious history and being one of the oldest cities in the world, Allahabad has several historical monuments from different periods of Indian History, from the tomb of Khusru, in Khusrobagh which was built during the medieval period under Mughal Rule to All Saints Cathedral in Civil Lines built during the British Raj to Alopi Devi Mandir in Alopibagh which is one of the oldest Hindu temples built during the ancient period. Several more historical locations like the Allahabad Fort built by Emperor Akbar during the Mughal Rule to several ancient Hindu temples like the Hanuman Temple near Sangam adorn the city. Allahabad is also famous worldwide for the Kumbh Mela, a holy religious gathering of Hindu pilgrims which also attracts a large number of tourists and has been taking place in the city from ancient times. There are several other places of interest like the Allahabad University which was built by the British during the British Raj to several contemporary monuments, each depicting a different time-period in the history of the city."
List
List of tourist attractions in Allahabad
Reporting and citation
"Private journals that report Allahabad High Court Judgements include Allahabad Criminal Cases, Allahabad Law Journal and Lucknow Law Times."
"The Allahabad High Court or the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad is a high court based in Allahabad that has jurisdiction over the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It was established in 1869, making it one of the first high courts to be established in India."
Allahabad became the seat of Government of North-Western Provinces and a High Court was established in 1834 but was shifted to Agra within a year.[1] In 1868 it shifted back to Allahabad.[2][3] The former High Court was located at the Accountant General's office at the University of Allahabad complex.[3]
"It was originally founded as the High Court of Judicature for the North-Western Provinces at Agra on 17 March 1866 by the Indian High Courts Act 1861 replacing the old Sadr Diwani Adalat. Sir Walter Morgan, Barrister-at-Law and Mr. Simpson were appointed the first Chief Justice and the first Registrar respectively of the High Court of North-Western Provinces."
"When the state of Uttaranchal, now known as Uttarakhand, was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000, this high court ceased to have jurisdiction over the districts falling in Uttaranchal. Allahabad High court was built by Khan saheb Nizamuddin of Loha Mundi, Agra, India. He also donated the water fountain to the High court."
Principal seat and benches
"The seat of the court is at Allahabad. Allahabad High Court maintains a permanent circuit bench at Lucknow, the administrative capital of the state. The maximum number of serving judges is 160, the highest in India."
Chief Justice
Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale is the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court.[4][5]
List of Chief Justices
Chandra Shekhar Azad Memorial
Victoria Memorial
Thornhill Mayne Memorial (c 1860)
"Chandrasekhar Azad Park (British colonial era Alfred Park and informally Company Garden) is a public park in Allahabad. Built in 1870 to mark Prince Alfred's visit to the city, with an area of 133 acres, it is the biggest park in Allahabad.[2][3] It was renamed after freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad, who sacrificed his life here, during the Indian independence struggle in 1931. Originally and still famously the park is known as Alfred Park."
"In 1870 old cantonments were transformed into a park when, after the Rebellion of 1857, new areas were developed.[2]"
"The park is situated in the neighborhood of Georgetown and is surrounded by Tagoretown, Civil Lines and the University of Allahabad. Its coordinates are N25°27'9"",E80°50,51"""
Being a big park it has some of very important heritage and recreational sites.
Alfred Park
Moat at the Aligarh Fort
"Coordinates: 27°55′42″N 78°03′26″E﻿ / ﻿27.9284684°N 78.0571125°E﻿ / 27.9284684; 78.0571125 Aligarh Fort (Hindi: अलीगढ़ क़िला, Urdu: علی گڑھ قلعہ‎ Aligarh Qila) also known as ""bohne chor ka qila""(english-small thief's fort,is one of the strongest forts in India, is located in the city of Aligarh (The city was earlier named as Kol or Koil), Uttar Pradesh. It is also called ""Aligarh Qila"". It is situated on the Grand Trunk road and consists of a regular polygon, surrounded by a very broad and deep ditch.[1]"
"It was built during the time of Ibrahim Lodi by Muhammad, son of Umar the governor of Kol, in 1524-25. Sabit Khan, who was the governor of this region during the time of Farrukh Siyar and Muhammad Shah, further rebuilt the fort.[2] It became a fortress of great importance under Madhavrao I Scindia in 1759, and was the depot where he drilled and organized his battalions in the European fashion with the aid of French soldier Benoît de Boigne. During the Battle of Ally Ghur, it was captured from the Marathas under the leadership of a French officer Perron by Lord Gerard Lake's British army, in September 1803, since which time it has been much strengthened and improved. In the rebellion of 1857 the troops stationed at Aligarh mutinied, but abstained from murdering their officers, who, with the other residents and ladies and children, succeeded in reaching Hathras.[1]"
"The fort is built on a hill, north of the Aligarh Muslim University at Barauli Marg. It has steep ravines, over 30 feet high, on every side, and bastions in every angle on the walls. Now Aligarh fort is in the control of Aligarh Muslim University. The university uses part of the internal area fort as location for its department of Botany. The fort has been the seat of many governors and other rulers of this land, including Sabit Khan, Surajmal Jat in 1753 and mentioned Madhavrao Scindia in 1759. The fort was expanded three times in 1753 by lieutenant Banasaur, commanding officer of contemporary ruler Surajmal Jat, to include a basement, an explosives warehouse and an air cooled kitchen.[3]"
"The Allahabad Museum is a national-level museum in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh.[1][2] Established in 1931,[3] it is known for its rich collection and unique objects of art, and is funded by Ministry of Culture."
Collection
"Ancient sculpture from Mathura, Bhumra, Jamsot, Terracottas of Kausambi; Rajasthani Miniatures; Paintings of Nicholas Roerich and those of the Bengal School of Art, autobiography of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru; manuscripts of well-known Hindi authors, .32 bore Colt pistol of Chandra Shekhar Azad and the 'Gandhi Smrithi Vahan' are some unique items among the collection in the museum."
"The museum is situated on Kamla Nehru Road, within the historic Alfred Park, where freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad sacrificed his life."
"The Anand Bhavan is a historic house museum in Allahabad, India focusing on the Nehru Family. It was constructed by Indian political leader Motilal Nehru in the 1930s to serve as the residence of the Nehru family when the original mansion Swaraj Bhavan (previously called Anand Bhavan) was transformed into the local headquarters of the Indian National Congress. Jawahar Planetarium, the planetarium is situated here, which has been striving to inculcate scientific temper among masses through its sky shows on astronomy and science."
"Anand Bhavan was donated to Indian government in 1970 by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the granddaughter of Motilal Nehru and daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru.[1]"
Gokul is a municipality (or nagar panchayat) in the Mathura district of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is located 15 km south-east of Mathura. Hindus believe that Lord Krishna spent his childhood in Gokula.
In Vedic Scripture
"Krishna dances over the subdued Kaliya Naag in river Yamuna, while seen on the banks are people of Gokula, Krishna's father Nanda Baba and his brother Balarama"
"As of 2001[update] India census,[2] Gokul had a population of 4041. Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%. Gokul has an average literacy rate of 60%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 68%, and female literacy is 49%. In Gokul, 18% of the population is under 8 years of age."
"Krishna dancing on Kaliya Nag(Snake), Prem Mandir Vrindavan"
Gokul is located at 27°27′N 77°43′E﻿ / ﻿27.45°N 77.72°E﻿ / 27.45; 77.72.[3] It has an average elevation of 163 metres (534 feet).
"Kushinagar, Kusinagar or Kusinara is a town and a Nagar Panchayat in the Kushinagar district of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh located around NH-28, and is 52 km east of Gorakhpur city. The Government of Uttar Pradesh has proposed Kushinagar-Sarnath Buddha Expressway to connect Buddhist pilgrimage towns. The expressway will be around 200 km long and wil reduce the distance from both town from Seven hours to one and half hours. The expressway will also promote easy accessibility from other East UP towns to proposed AIIMS near Gorakhpur. It is an important Buddhist pilgrimage site, where Buddhists believe Gautama Buddha attained Parinirvana after his death.[2] Outside India, it is an International Buddhist Pilgrimage Centre. The followers of Buddhism, especially from Asian countries, wish to visit this place at least once in their lifetime.[3]"
"According to one theory, Kushwati was capital of Kosala Kingdom and according to Ramayana it was built by King Kush, son of Rama, protagonist of the epic Ramayana. While according to Buddhist tradition Kushawati was named prior to the king Kush. The naming of Kushwati is believed to be due to abundance of Kush grass found in this region.[3]"
"As of 2011 India census, Kushinagar had a population of 22,214,[1][4] with 3462 households. Males constitute 52% (11,502 Men) of the population and females 48% (10,712 Women). Kushinagar has an average literacy rate of 78.43%, higher than the national average of 74%, male literacy is 85%, and female literacy is 72%. In Kushinagar, 11% of the population is under 10 years of age. Schedule Caste (SC) constitutes 5.03% while Schedule Tribe (ST) were 2.39% of total population in Kushinagar Nagar Panchayat.[1]"
"The present Kushinagar is identified with Kushawati( in pre-Buddha period ) and Kushinara (in Buddha period). Kushinara was the capital of Mallas which was one of the sixteen mahajanpads of the 6th Century B.C. Since then, it remained an integral part of the erstwhile empires of Maurya, Shunga, Kushana, Gupta and Harsha dynasties."
"In medieval period, Kushinagar had passed under the suzerainty of Kultury Kings. Kushinara continued to be a living city till the 12th Century A.D. and was thereafter lost into oblivion. Padrauna is believed to be ruled over by a Rajput adventurer, Madan Singh in the 15th century A.D."
"However, modern Kushinagar came into prominence in the 19th Century with archeological excavations carried out by Alexander Cunningham, the first Archeological Surveyor of India and later followed by C.L. Carlleyle who exposed the main stupa and also discovered a 6.10 meters long statue of reclining Buddha in 1876. Excavations continued in the early twentieth century under J. Ph. Vogel.[5] He conducted archaeological campaigns in 1904-5, 1905-6 and 1906-7, uncovering a wealth of Buddhist materials."
"Chandra Swami, a Burmese Monk, came to India in 1903 and made ""Mahaparinirvana Temple"" into a living shrine."
"After independence, Kushinagar remained the part of district Deoria. On 13 May 1994, it came into being as a new district of Uttar Pradesh.[6]"
Location of Gautama Buddha's death and parinirvana
"In 1896, Waddell suggested that the site of the death and parinirvana of Gautama Buddha was in the region of Rampurva.[7] However, according to Maha-parinirvana Sutta, the Buddha made his journey to Kushinagar, died there and wherein he was cremated.[8][9] Modern scholarship, based on archaeological evidence, believes that the Buddha died in Kushinagar, close to the modern Kasia (Uttar Pradesh).[10][11][12][13]"
"Ashoka built a stupa and pilgrimage site to mark Buddha's parinirvana in Kushinagara.[14] The Hindu kings of Gupta dynasty period (4th to 7th century CE) helped greatly enlarge the Nirvana stupa and Kushinagar site, building a temple with reclining Buddha.[15][16] This site was abandoned by Buddhist monks around 1200 CE, who flee to escape the invading Muslim army, after which the site decayed over the Islamic rule in India that followed.[17][18] The British archaeologist Alexander Cunningham rediscovered Kushinagara in late 19th-century and his colleague A. C. L. Carlleyle unearthed the 1,500 year old Buddha image.[16][19][20] The site has since then become an important pilgrimage site for Buddhists.[8][21] Archaeological evidence from the 3rd century BCE suggests that the Kushinagara site was an ancient pilgrimage site.[8]"
Geography
"Kushinagar is situated at 53 km east from Gorakhpur on the National Highway -28, lies between latitude 26° 45´ N and 83° 24´ E.[22][23] Gorakhpur is the main railway terminus for Kushinagar while air strip of U.P. Civil Aviation is available in Kasia, 5 km. from Kushinagar.[22]"
Golden Statue of Buddha in Wat Thai Kushinara Temple.
"The Parinirvana Temple with the Parinirvana Stupa, Kushinagar"
Stupa ruins in Kushinagar.
Sikandara It is a town in Kanpur Dehat districtin the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh .It is head quarter of tehsil Sikandara.[2]
It is located on NH-2 about 80 km away from kanpur toward west and towards south from Jhinjhak at a distance 20 kilometer.Auraiya city is towards west from Sikandara and Pukhrayan town is towarad east.It is also a Sikandara legislature constituency.
It is said that this township was settled by Sikandar Lodi.[3]
Schools
Saraswati Inter College
Sikandara is located at26°22′04″N 79°37′41″E﻿ / ﻿26.36778°N 79.62806°E﻿ / 26.36778; 79.62806.[4] It has an average elevation of 85 metres (278 feet).
"As of 2001[update] India census,[5] Sikandara had a population of 10,884. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Sikandara has an average literacy rate of 58%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 64%, and female literacy is 51%. In Sikandara, 16% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Mausoleum of Itmad-ud-Daulah's tomb (front view)
"Tomb of I'timād-ud-Daulah (Urdu: اعتماد الدولہ کا مقبرہ‎, I'timād-ud-Daulah kā Maqbara) is a Mughal mausoleum in the city of Agra in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Often described as a ""jewel box"", sometimes called the ""Baby Tāj"", the tomb of I'timād-ud-Daulah is often regarded as a draft of the Tāj Mahal."
"Along with the main building, the structure consists of numerous outbuildings and gardens. The tomb, built between 1622 and 1628 represents a transition between the first phase of monumental Mughal architecture – primarily built from red sandstone with marble decorations, as in Humayun's Tomb in Delhi and Akbar's tomb in Sikandra – to its second phase, based on white marble and pietra dura inlay, most elegantly realized in the Tāj Mahal."
"The mausoleum was commissioned by Nūr Jahān, the wife of Jahangir, for her father Mirzā Ghiyās Beg, originally a Persian Amir in exile,[1] who had been given the title of I'timād-ud-Daulah (pillar of the state). Mirzā Ghiyās Beg was also the grandfather of Mumtāz Mahāl (originally named Arjūmand Bāno, daughter of Asaf Khān), the wife of the emperor Shāh Jahān, responsible for the construction of the Tāj Mahal. Nur Jehan was also responsible for the construction of the Tomb of Jehangir at Lahore."
Cenotaphs at the Tomb of Itmad-ud-Daulah
"Located on the right bank of the Yamuna River, the mausoleum is set in a large cruciform garden criss-crossed by water courses and walkways. The mausoleum itself covers about twenty-three meters square, and is built on a base about fifty meters square and about one meter high. On each corner are hexagonal towers, about thirteen meters tall."
"The walls are made up from white marble from Rajasthan encrusted with semi-precious stone decorations – cornelian, jasper, lapis lazuli, onyx, and topaz formed into images of cypress trees and wine bottles, or more elaborate decorations like cut fruit or vases containing bouquets. Light penetrates to the interior through delicate jālī screens of intricately carved white marble. The interior decoration is considered by many to have inspired that of the Taj Mahal, which was built by her stepson, Mughal emperor Shah Jahan."
"The town (as well as the mandal) of Srisailam (Kannada : ಶ್ರೀಶೈಲ shrīshaila , Telugu : శ్రీశైలం śrīśailaṃ ) is reputed for the shrine of Lord Mallikarjuna on the flat top of Nallamala Hills. It has played a dominant role in the Hindu religious, cultural and social history since ancient times. The epigraphical evidence reveals that the history of Srisailam began with the Satavahanas who were the first empire builders in South India. The earliest known historical mention of the hill, Srisailam, can be traced to the King Vasishthiputra Pulumavi's Nasik inscription of 1st Century A.D. Srisailam or Srisailamu (Śrīśailaṁ, Śrīśailamu) is situated in the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, India. It is on the banks of the Krishna River about 212 km south of Hyderabad and 179 km from Kurnool. It is spelled as Shrishailam. There is a saying in Sanskrit about Srisailam :"
"Meaning ""By seeing the śikhara or the peak of Srisailam, (one releases himself from the cycle of birth and death) one is not born again."""
Srisailam is located at 16°04′26″N 78°52′05″E﻿ / ﻿16.074°N 78.868°E﻿ / 16.074; 78.868.[2] It has an average elevation of 409 meters (1345 ft).
"The Sri Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple located in Srisailam is one of the 12 Jyotirlinga temples dedicated to Lord Shiva. Earlier, it was called Srigiri. The Bhramarambha Temple is also located in the same complex. It is considered as one of the eighteen Shakti Peethas in India. Bhramarambha is a very ferocious deity. Originally she was worshipped by the Chenchu people. However, during British rule, the temple was taken over by the Pushpagiri peetham forcibly with the help of the British Government ruling the Madras Presidency."
"Chittaranjan Avenue, more commonly C.R. Avenue, is the previous Central Avenue, a principal north-south thoroughfare in north and central Kolkata."
Chittaranjan Avenue.
Stretch
The C.R.Avenue runs from the Esplanade in the southern limit to near Shobhabazar in the northern side.
"The road is arterial in maintaining north-central connection in Kolkata. The road is always busy. A major portion of the Kolkata Metro runs beneath this road. Several important places are in this road, like Sovabazar,Girish Park, Jorasanko, Mahajati SadanSadan, M.G.Road crossing, Medical College, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Central, Bowbazar, Chandni Chowk and the Esplanade."
Operation
"The road is bi-directional throughout the day. Certain crossings are,however,unidirectional, that is, in certain crossings, vehicles can turn only in a specific direction, and the other direction."
Legacy
The Central Avenue in Kolkata was renamed Chittaranjan Avenue (C.R. Avenue) after Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das.
Chittaranjan Avenue
"Jorasanko Thakur Bari, now Rabindra Bharati University"
Jorasanko Thakur Bari gate on Rabindra Sarani
Inner verandah of the Mansion
"Jorasanko Thakur Bari (Bengali: House of the Thakurs (anglicised to Tagore) in Jorasanko, north of Kolkata, West Bengal, India, is the ancestral home of the Tagore family. It is currently located on the Rabindra Bharati University campus at 6/4 Dwarakanath Tagore Lane[1] Jorasanko, Kolkata 700007.[2] It is the house in which the poet and first non-European Nobel laureate, Rabindranath Tagore was born. It is also the place where he spent most of his childhood and died on 7 August 1941."
Background
It was built in the 18th century on the land donated by the famous Sett family of burrabazar to Prince Dwarkanath Tagore (Rabindranath Tagore's grandfather). Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore (1861–1941) was born here.[3]
Tagore Museum
The house has been restored to reflect the way the household looked when the Tagore family lived in it and currently serves as the Tagore museum for Kolkata. The museum offers details about the history of the Tagore family including its involvement with the Bengal Renaissance and the Brahmo Samaj.[4]
Visits and programmes
"A visit to Jorasanko Thakur Bari is always an exhilarating experience.[5] Apart from the heritage routine, Rabindra Bharati University organizes regular cultural programmes on the poet’s birthday, Panchise Baisakh, when thousands flock to Jorasanko Thakur Bari,[6][7] and on other occasions, such as his death anniversary, Baishe Shravan.[8] It also organises a festival of arts, Aban Mela.[9]"
Jorasanko Thakur Bari
"The Gurusaday Museum is a folk arts and crafts museum located in Kolkata, India. The collection, with over 3000 artifacts, include archaeological objects, deities, manuscripts, masks, musical instruments, paintings, textiles and woodwork.[1] It is the outcome of a lifetime of collection by Gurusaday Dutt, after whom the museum is named. It was set up on the recommendation of his son, Birendrasaday Dutt and was run by his daughter-in-law, Aroti Dutt, who was its long time chairperson."
Chandraketugarh. Sunga With Child
"Chandraketugarh is an archaeological site located beside the Bidyadhari river, about 35 km north-east of Kolkata, India, in the district of North 24 parganas, near the township of Berachampa and the Haroa Road railhead."
"Years of excavation have revealed relics of several historical periods, although the chronological classification of the relics remains incomplete."
"Finds include Northern Black Polished Ware (NBPW) relics, later wares dated from about 400 BC to 100 BC and approximately contemporary with the Maurya period, as well as from the more recent Kushanas and Gupta periods."
Sabarna Sangrahashala (সাবর্ণ সংগ্রহশালা) in Kolkata is a museum about the Sabarna Roy Choudhury family and Kolkata. It has been developed by The Sabarna Roy Choudhury Paribar Parishad. It was established in 2005 to cater the need of students and research scholars and also to create an awareness about the preservation of historical source materials.
The Museum
"The Museum exhibits rare articles and historical documents of history. It is located at Barisha in Kolkata. The Institution caters to the needs of researchers doing studies on Kolkata and the Sabarna Roy Choudhury family. This family museum possesses rare documents and articles, including Kabilatipatras dating from the 18th and 19th centuries: an important holding being one which has signature of Kavi Ramprasad Sen dated 1794. Other articles include a huge earthen rice pot dating 1840 with a capacity for 240 kg of grain, a metal hookah dated c. 1878, a metal candle stand dated c. 1795, and grinding wheels dated 1845. The philatelic and numismatic divisions possess rare stamps, First Day Covers and coins.[1]"
"Also on display is the historic judgement of the Kolkata High Court regarding the Kolkata Birthday Case and the Expert Committee Report on the matter. The Judgement states that Job Charnock was not the founder of Calcutta (Kolkata), nor is 24 August is the city's birthday: Kolkata was an important trade and religious centre before the arrival of Charnock.[2][3][4]"
The Library
"The Museum has its own reference library with some rare collection of books and journals. A new and exclusive Digital Library cum Resource Archive, a first such initiative in Kolkata, has been included and may be used by public free of cost. This Digital Library cum Resource Archive has a vast collection of rarest books, travelogues, journals and seminar papers covering topics of history from across the world with a special focus on the history of Kolkata, Mughal Era and the Sabarna Roy Choudhury family.[5]"
"The Sangrahashala in joint venture with Manna Publications, is engaged in publications. Sabarna Barta is the annual Tabloid published every year during the Durga Pujo which contains yearly round up and highlights on new research works undertaken by the Parishad."
The traditional family Hand Written Magazine named Saptarshi is also published during the International History & Heritage Exhibition. Presently this heritage magazine is edited by Dipak Kumar Roy Choudhury and Devarshi Roy Choudhury[10][11]
Sabarna Sangrahashala
Central Park situated in Bidhannagar is a public urban park. It is also known as Banabitan. It is the second largest open space in the city of Kolkata after the Maidan. It is a favorite hangout for lovers.[1] This park is easily reachable from the Karunamoyee bus stand in Salt Lake – the Central Park Kolkata Metro station is projected to work in 2015. On the roads surrounding the park are the buildings where the West Bengal government has relocated many government departments.
"The park is built around an expansive water body. There is a bridge which connects on side of the lake to an island which has a pagoda. The lake serves as a haven for water birds like lesser whistling duck, common moorhen, egrets, cormorants and other species. There are also boating facilities in a cordoned off section of the lake near the rose garden."
"The park has a very beautiful rose garden (near Gate No.1, opposite Bikash Bhawan). The rose garden is bordered by rows of hedges surrounding the rose plants. When in bloom, the rose flowers present a delightful sight."
"Prinsep Ghats (Bengali: প্রিন্সেপ ঘাট) is a ghat built in 1841 during the British Raj, along the Kolkata bank of the Hooghly River in India. The Palladian porch in the memory of the eminent Anglo-Indian scholar and antiquary James Prinsep was designed by W. Fitzgerald and constructed in 1843."
"Located between the Water Gate and the St George's Gate of the Fort William, the monument to Prinsep is rich in Greek and Gothic inlays. It was restored by the state's public works department in November 2001 and has since been well-maintained.[1] In its initial years, all royal British entourages used the Prinsep Ghat jetty for embarkation and disembarkation.[2][3][4]"
"Fort William is a fort built in Calcutta (presently Kolkata) on the eastern banks of the River Hooghly, the major distributary of the River Ganges, during the early years of the Bengal Presidency of British India. It was named after King William III of England and Ireland and II of Scotland.[1] In front of the Fort is the Maidan, which used to be a part of the Fort and is the largest urban park in Calcutta."
"Plan (top-view) of Fort William, c. 1844"
Airport extension
"Kolkata's Circular Railway has been extended from Dum Dum Cantonment to Biman Bandar/Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport. A 3.8 km extension from Dum Dum Cantonment station and includes two elevated stations Jessore Road and Biman Bandar. It runs at grade to UK Dutta Road and then on an elevated structure to the airport passing through Jessop, Jessore Road, VIP Road, and the domestic terminal road. This project was undertaken by the Kolkata Metro."
"Kolkata Circular Railway, is a railway loop line operated by the Eastern Railway zone of Indian Railways, encircling the entire city of Kolkata. The line begins and terminates at Biman Bandar station, with a total of 21 stations spread over the route's 35 kilometers length. Services on the line are operated as an extension of the Kolkata Suburban Railway, partially sharing tracks with the Sealdah South lines, terminating at Sealdah railway station (which is bypassed by the Circular Railway). There are no services which operate throughout the loop as a whole; instead, services are operated from Biman Bandar to Majerhat (via Burrabazar),[1] and Majerhat to Biman Bandar (via Ballygunge),[2] sharing the stations Dum Dum Junction and Dum Dum Cantonment both ways. The line operates a part of longer suburban services from Budge Budge, Canning, Barrackpore, and Hasnabad."
A photo of the Circular Railway track taken in Kolkata
Stations
Kolkata Circular Railway
"The Shaheed Minar (Bengali: শহীদ মিনার Shôhid Minar; English: Martyrs' Monument), formerly known as the Ochterlony Monument (Bengali: অক্টারলোনি মনুমেন্ট), is a monument in Kolkata that was erected in 1828 in memory of Major-general Sir David Ochterlony, commander of the British East India Company, to commemorate both his successful defense of Delhi against the Marathas in 1804 and the victory of the East India Company’s armed forces over the Gurkhas in the Anglo-Nepalese War. The monument was constructed in his memory. It was designed by J.P. Parker and paid for from public funds.[1]"
"In August 1969, it was rededicated to the memory of the martyrs of the Indian freedom movement and hence renamed the ""Shahid Minar,"" which means ""martyrs' monument"" in both Bengali and Hindi, by the then United Front Government in memory of the martyrs of the Indian independence movement. The present government has decided to illuminate the tower during evenings and allow visitors to the top. The last persons who went up there were former governor Gopal Krishna Gandhi and his family.[1][2][3]"
An old photo of Shaheed Minar (standing tall at right).
"Entitled as the ""Cloud kissing Monument"" by Mark Twain, the Shaheed Minar is located at Esplanade in central Kolkata in the north east facet of the Maidan the tower is 48 m (157 ft) high. It has a foundation based on the Egyptian style.[4] The column is a combination of styles with a classical fluted column, a Syrian upper portion and a Turkish dome.[4] It has two balconies at the top. The top floor of the minar is accessible by a serpentine staircase, a total of 223 steps.[1][3][4] It has a total of 218 steps until the top of the tower.[4][5]"
Shahid Minar Maidan
"The vast field to the south of Shaheed Minar, is known as the Shaheed Minar Maidan or the Brigade Ground. It has a history of holding political rallies and fairs.[4] The first political meeting on the ground, was presided over by Rabindranath Tagore to condemn the killing of a youth in Hijli by the British in 1931.[3][4] The central bus terminus of the city is around the monument.[1]"
Public use
"In 1997, a tourist jumped off the lower balcony of the monument.[4] Since then if one wished to climb the steps of the monument, he or she had to acquire police permission.[4] They had to submit address proof and photo ID at the Lalbazar Police Headquarters, while tourists who are not from Calcutta had to submit documents from their hotel and foreigners had to submit a passport copy.[4]"
"Shaheed Minar, Kolkata"
"The Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Indoor Stadium is an indoor sports arena, in Kolkata, West Bengal, India. The facility seats 12,000 people. This indoor stadium is located just beside the Eden Gardens. It used to host the Sunfeast Open, a WTA Tour tennis tournament. It is also the home of the Pro Kabaddi League team Bengal Warriors."
"The venue was inaugurated in 1975 by the then Chief Minister of West Bengal, Siddhartha Shankar Ray, for indoor games and cultural events, musical functions and other programmes."
"New Market is a market in Kolkata situated on Lindsay Street at Free School Street (Mirza Ghalib Street). Although primarily ""New Market"" referred to the original enclosed market, today in local parlance, the entire shopping area is often known as ""New Market""."
"Sir Stuart Hogg Market, c. 1905"
New Market circa 1945
"Some of the earliest English quarters of Calcutta were in an area known then as Dalhousie Square. Terretti and Lalbazar nearby were the customary shopping haunts of the British. Later settlements arose in Kashaitola, Dharmatala and Chowringhee. By the 1850s, British colonists held sway in Calcutta and displayed increasing contempt for the “natives” and an aversion to brushing shoulders with them at the bazaars. In 1871, moved by a well orchestrated outcry from English residents, a committee of the Calcutta Corporation began to contemplate a market which would be the preserve of Calcutta’s British residents. Spurred by the committee’s deliberations, the Corporation purchased Lindsay Street, made plans to raze the old Fenwick’s Bazar located there, and commissioned Richard Roskell Bayne, an architect of the East Indian Railway Company, to design the Victorian Gothic market complex which would take its place. It began to take shape in 1873, and Bayne was honoured for his achievement with a Rs. 1,000 rupee award, a large sum in the 1870s.[1] Mackintosh Burn was the builder.[2]"
"The giant shopping arcade was thrown open to the English populace with some fanfare on January 1, 1874. News of Calcutta’s first municipal market spread rapidly. Affluent colonials from all over India shopped at exclusive retailers like Ranken and Company (dressmakers), Cuthbertson and Harper (shoe-merchants) and R.W. Newman or Thacker Spink, the famous stationers and book-dealers.[1]"
Food stores
"There are several renowned confectioners in New Market: Nahoum & Sons (estd. 1902)[4][5] is truly historic, with its original mahogany cabinetry and marble counters. For over a century, millions of customers have sworn by Nahoum’s Rich Fruit Cake, its brownies, marzipan, macaroons and much more. Imperial Confectioners and D Gama compete for a close second and third place."
Fires
The New Market witnessed two major fires on 13 December 1985 and 20 July 2011. [2]There was another massive fire on 18 May 2015.[9] [10]
"The Asiatic Society was founded by Sir William Jones on 15 January 1784 in a meeting presided over by Sir Robert Chambers, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court at the Fort William in Calcutta, then capital of the British Raj, to enhance and further the cause of Oriental research. At the time of its foundation, this Society was named as ""Asiatick Society"". In 1825, the society dropped the antique k without any formal resolution and the Society was renamed as ""The Asiatic Society"". In 1832 the name was changed to ""The Asiatic Society of Bengal"" and again in 1936 it was renamed as ""The Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal."" Finally, on 1 July 1951 the name of the society was changed to its present one. The Society is housed in a building at Park Street in Kolkata (Calcutta). The Society moved into this building during 1808. In 1823, the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta was formed and all the meetings of this society were held in the Asiatic Society."
"In January 1784 Sir William Jones sent out a circular-letter to a selected number of British residents of Calcutta with a view to establish a society for the Asiatic studies. At his inivitation, thirty British residents met in the Grand Jury Room of the Supreme Court (in Calcutta's Fort William) on 15 January 1784. The meeting was presided over by Sir Robert Chambers. At this meeting, Jones explained the aims of the Society, he would establish. The Memorandum of Articles of the Asiatick Society, prepared by Jones said:[1]"
"The bounds of investigations will be the geographical limits of Asia, and within these limits its enquiries will be extended to whatever is performed by man or produced by nature."
The old Asiatic Society building
"Notable early members were Charles Wilkins and Alexander Hamilton (the cousin of the American statesman). Initially, the Grand Jury Room of the Supreme Court was used for the meetings of the members, who had to pay a quarterly fee of two mohurs. The members were elected through ballot-voting. On 29 September 1796 the Society decided to have its own building. J.H. Harrington, then Vice-President selected the corner of Park Street and Chowringhee Road (present location) for the Society's house. The site was granted to the society on 15 May 1805. The original plan for the new building was prepared by Captain Thomas Preston. The French architect, Jean Jacques Pichon (or Jean Jacques Pissaun) made certain modifications to it and constructed a two storeyed building at the site. This 15,071 ft² building was built at a cost of Rs. 30,000.00. The first quarterly meeting of the Society for 1808 was held at its new building on 3 February 1808.[1]"
"From 1784 to 1828, only Europeans were elected members of the Society. In 1829, at the initiative of H.H. Wilson, a number of Indians were elected members, which include Dwarakanath Tagore, Sivchandra Das, Maharaja Baidyanath Roy, Maharaja Bunwari Govind Roy, Raja Kalikrishna Bahadur, Rajchunder Das, Ram Comul Sen and Prasanna Coomar Tagore. On 12 December 1832 Ram Comul Sen was elected 'Native Secretary'. Later, Rajendralal Mitra became the first Indian President in 1885.[1]"
Library
"One of the main activities of the Asiatic Society was to collect the old manuscripts of India.[2] There was an enomous collection of Sanskrit manuscripts with the society. [2] At present, the library of the Asiatic Society has a collection of about 117,000 books and 79,000 journals printed in almost all the major languages of the world. It has also a collection of 293 maps, microfische of 48,000 works, microfilm of 387,003 pages, 182 paintings, 2500 pamphlets and 2150 photographs. The earliest printed book preserved in this library is Juli Firmici's Astronomicorum Libri published in 1499.[1] It has in its possession a large number of books printed in India in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. The library also possesses many rare and scarcely available books. The library has a rich collection of about 47,000 manuscripts in 26 scripts. The most notable amongst them are an illustrated manuscript of the Qur'an, a manuscript of the Gulistan text, and a manuscript of Padshah Nama bearing the signature of Emperor Shahjahan. The number of journals in the possession of the library is about 80,000 at present."
"The Indian Museum, Calcutta"
"The museum of the Society was founded in 1814 under the superintendence of Nathaniel Wallich. The rapid growth of its collection is evident from its first catalogue, published in 1849. By 1849 the Society had its own museum consisting of inscriptions in stone and metal, icons, old coins and Sanskrit manuscripts etc. [2]"
"When the Indian Museum of Calcutta was established in 1814, the Society handed over most of its valuable collections to it. The Society however still has a museum of its own which possesses a rock edict of Asoka (c. 250 BCE) and a significant collection of copper plate inscriptions, coins, sculptures, manuscripts and archival records. Some masterpieces, like Joshua Reynolds’ Cupid asleep on Cloud , Guido Cagnacci's Cleopatra, Thomas Daniell's A Ghat at Benares and Peter Paul Rubens’ Infant Christ are also in the possession of this museum."
References and sources
Sources
"Diamond Harbour (Bengali: ডায়মন্ড হারবার) is in the southern suburbs of Kolkata, on the eastern banks of the Hooghly River quite near where the river meets the Bay of Bengal. This small town is a popular weekend tourist spot located in South 24 Parganas district."
"Earlier known as Hajipur, this charming place was named Diamond Harbour by the British although currently there are no piers or jetties at this location, except for the ruins of a fort. It used to be considered a safe resting spot for oceangoing ships and offered a spectacular view of the river. After the Rupnarayan River joins the Hughli, the river bends south and widens out to a form a huge expanse of water. A little further down, the Haldi river joins it."
In earlier days Diamond Harbour used to be a stronghold of Portuguese pirates. The ruins of the fort of Chingrikhali (locally known as Purano Kella) can still be seen. It is believed to be linked with the Portuguese but some opine that the East India Company built it before they could establish themselves in Kolkata. There is an old lighthouse nearby. Diamond Harbour municipality was established in 1982.
"As per 2011 Census of India Diamond Harbour had a total population of 41,802, of which 21,050 (50%) were males and 20,752 (50%) were females. Population below 6 years was 3,688. The total number of literates in Diamond Harbour was 32,753 (85.93% of the population over 6 years).[1]"
"As of 2001[update] India census,[2] Diamond Harbour had a population of 37,238. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Diamond Harbour has an average literacy rate of 72%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 77% and, female literacy is 67%. In Diamond Harbour, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Nearby places
"This small town with a picturesque setting is the gateway to the south-western part of the district leading to such places as Gangasagar, Kakdwip, Namkhana and Bakkhali. Gangasagar is a Hindu pilgrimage site where Hindus perform ablutions to wash away their sins. Bakkhali is gaining in popularity as a beach resort. There is a five star hotel with a magnificent panoramic view of the river at Raichak. Jetties at Diamond Harbour, Raichak and 'Nurpur' provide steamer service to the other bank of the wide river estuary. There are few heritage places like Village Bolshiddhi's Shiv Temple i.e. 3 km alway from Diamond Harbour Town. Sarisha hat is famous and nice joint for weekend grocery and Ramkrisha Vidya Mandir."
Port development
"The area being in the proximity of the Bay of Bengal, there is scope for development of ports and shipping activity. The special economic zone at Falta is one of the eight such zones of the Government of India. It has container-handling jetty. The Government of West Bengal proposes to construct a minor port at Kulpi with facilities for handling containers."
Diamond Harbour
"Asutosh Museum of Indian Art is an art museum located in the main campus of University of Calcutta on College Street, Kolkata (previously Calcutta), India. Established in 1937, it is the first public museum in any University in India.[1] The university museum is named after Sir Ashutosh Mukherjee who was the Vice-Chancellor of the university for four consecutive two-year terms (1906–1914) and a fifth two-year term (1921–23). The objective of the museum was to collect and preserve specimens of various phases of Indian art with special emphasis on the art of Bengal.[2]"
Lankeswari
"Lankeswari temple is located inside the river Mahanadi at Sonepur town, Subarnapur district, Odisha, India. Once upon a time Sonepur region was known as Paschima Lanka. Goddess Lankeswari was the presiding deity of Paschima Lanka.[1] Now Maa Lankeswari is worshiped by the Kaivarta (fisherman) community of Sonepur and people of Subarnapur district. One can see this temple while travelling on the road connecting Ulunda, Dharmasala, Sonepur and Birmaharajpur."
Lankeswari Temple
The 12809/10 Howrah Mumbai Mail is a superfast express train belonging to Indian Railways - South Eastern Railways that runs between Howrah Junction and Mumbai CST in India.
"The 12809/10 Howrah Mumbai Mail presently has 1 AC 1st Class, 2 AC 2 tier, 3 AC 3 tier, 13 Sleeper Class, 2 sitting cum luggage rack coaches & 1 Pantry Car. In addition it also carries a Railway Mail coach thus earning its mail title."
Howrah Mumbai Mail - Sleeper Coach - Lucky Number 13
The 12809/10 Howrah Mumbai Mail covers the distance of 1968 kilometers in 33 hours 15 mins as 12809 Mumbai Howrah Mail (59.19 km/hr) & in 33 hrs 10 mins as 12810 Howrah Mumbai Mail (59.34 km/hr).
Routeing
"The 12809/10 Howrah Mumbai Mail runs via Kharagpur Junction, Bilaspur Junction, Nagpur Junction, Bhusaval Junction Manmad Junction, Kalyan Junction to Mumbai CST."
Time Table
12810 Howrah Mumbai Mail leaves Howrah Junction on a daily basis at 20:15 hrs IST and reaches Mumbai CST at 05:25 hrs IST on the 3rd day.
External links
"Metropolitan Building (Bengali: মেট্রোপলিটান বিল্ডিং) is the number 46.26 building on Jawaharlal Nehru Road in Kolkata near Esplanade. Formerly known as the Whiteway Laidlaw department store, it was a famous department store in Calcutta during the British Rule in India. This neo-baroque emporium—with domes, a clock tower, and arched recessed windows—exemplifies fashionable shopping during the British Raj in British India. The building was built in 1905. Post Independence Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. assumed ownership, so people know it more commonly as Metropolitan Building.[1][2]"
It is located near the Shaheed Minar and the Grand Hotel.
Destruction
"In 1991, a fire ravaged the top floor of the majestic Metropolitan Building and hundreds of original negatives of Bourne and Shepherd, reputed to be the world’s oldest operational photography studio,[4] established in the late 19th century, perished in the fire.[5]"
Renovation
"Chowringhee (also spelt Chourangi) (Bengali: চৌরঙ্গী) is a neighbourhood in central Kolkata, earlier known as Calcutta, in the Indian state of West Bengal. Jawaharlal Nehru Road (earlier known as Chowringhee Road) runs on its western side. A neighbourhood steeped in history, it is a business district,[1] as well as a shopper’s destination and entertainment-hotel centre."
"The name ‘Chowringhee’ has defied etymologists. There is, however, the legend of a yogi, Chourangi Giri, who discovered an image of the goddess Kali’s face and built the first and founded the original Kalighat temple.[2]"
The village
Chowringhee in 1798
"In the seventeenth century or prior to it, the area now occupied by the Maidan and Esplanade was a tiger-infested jungle. At the eastern end of it was an old road, which had once been built by the Sabarna Roy Choudhury family from Barisha to Halisahar. Beyond it there were “pools, swamps and rice-fields, dotted here and there with the straggling huts of fishermen, falconers, wood-cutters, weavers and cultivators. In that region were three small hamlets – Chowringhee, Birjee and Colimba.[3]"
Chowringhee looking south
J L Nehru Road - The main stretch of Chowringhee
"The Chowringhee is located in central Kolkata. It has Janbazar on the north, Taltala and certain areas under Park Street Police Station on the east, Bhowanipore on the south and the Maidan on the west. The neighbourhood is spread over areas under New Market,[10] Park Street,[11] and Shakespeare Sarani police stations.[12]"
"Chowringhee is spread over parts of ward nos.44,45, 46,47,48,49,50,51, 52, 53, and 62 of Kolkata Municipal Corporation. These wards taken together had a total population of 159, 917 in the 2001 census, of which 101,189 were males and 58,828 were females.[13] A major portion of this population lived in Chowringhee neighbourhood."
Creative inspiration
"The Bengali novelist Sankar wrote a novel named Chowringhee in 1962 (three years before Arthur Hailey's Hotel). It became an instant hit. Set in Kolkata of the 1950s, it is the saga of the intimate lives of the staff and the guests at the Shahjahan, one of the largest city hotels located in the neighbourhood, which is the title of the novel. Some of its larger-than-life characters, as for example the enigmatic manager Marco Polo, the debonair receptionist Sata Bose, and the tragic hostess Karabi Guha, attained cult status. It has been translated into English by Arunava Sinha and is available as a Penguin paper-back. It has also been translated into several Indian languages.[14] Film director, Pinaki Bhusan Mikherjee made it into a successful film in 1968. It was also made into a play by BBC Four.[15]"
"In 1981, Aparna Sen wrote and directed a film, 36 Chowringhee Lane, about an aged Anglo-Indian school teacher who lives a lonely life in a single-room flat in the neighbourhood.[16]"
Images
Memorial Chhatri of Rana Udaybhanu Singh at Dholpur
Chhatris set atop each corner of the Hall of Audience in Fatehpur Sikri palace complex
"Chhatris are elevated, dome-shaped pavilions used as an element in Indian architecture. The word Chhatri means ""canopy"" or ""umbrella."" In the context of architecture, the word is used to refer to two different things. The usual and more widely understood meaning is of a memorial, usually very ornate, built over the site where the funeral (cremation) of an important man was performed. Such memorials usually consist of a platform girded by a set of ornate pillars which hold up a stone canopy. The word chhatri is also used to refer to the small pavilions that mark the corners, roof of entrance of a major building. These pavilions are purely decorative and have no utility, but are a classic folly which announce the status and wealth of the owner."
"Chhatris are commonly used to depict the elements of pride and honor in the Jat, Maratha and Rajput architecture. They are widely used, in palaces, in forts, or to demarcate funerary sites. Originating in Rajasthani architecture where they were memorials for kings and royalty, they were later adapted as a standard feature in all buildings in Maratha ruled states, Rajasthan, and most importantly in Mughal architecture. They are today seen on its finest monuments, Humayun's Tomb in Delhi and the Taj Mahal in Agra. Chhatris are basic element of Hindu as well as Mughal architecture. The term ""chhatri"" (Hindi: छतरी) means umbrella or canopy."
The Rashtrapati Bhavan's Chuttri
"Moosi Rani Ki Chhatri, Alwar"
Chhatri of Vithoji in Maheshwar.
Outside India
"There are two notable chhatris in the United Kingdom, a country with strong historical links to India. One is a cenotaph in Brighton, dedicated to the Indian soldiers who died in the First World War. The other is in Arnos Vale Cemetery near Bristol and is a memorial to the distinguished Indian reformer Ram Mohan Roy, who died in the city."
"The 12137/12138 Punjab Mail is a Superfast express train of Indian Railways - Central Railway zone that runs between Mumbai and Ferozpur in India. It operates as train number 12137 from Mumbai CST to Ferozpur and as train number 12138 in the reverse direction. It is among the two daily trains that connect Mumbai and Firozpur, the other being the Ferozpur Janata Express."
"This is the oldest running train in India since 1912 (105 years old).The inaugural run of the Punjab Mail is thought to have taken place on 1 June 1912. Then known as The Punjab Limited, the train initially ran from Ballard Pier to Peshawar, taking British officers, civil servants, and their families directly from their ships to Delhi and the North-West frontier of British India.This train is older than the G T Express which started on 1st January 1929."
"In 1914, the originating station was moved to Victoria Terminus, and after the partition of India in 1947, the train's terminus was brought back to Firozpur on the India-Pakistan border.[1]"
"The 12137/12138 Punjab Mail presently has 1 AC 1st Class cum AC 2 tier coach, 1 AC 2 tier coach, 1 AC 2 cum AC 3 tier coach, 5 AC 3 tier coaches, 10 Sleeper Class coaches, 4 General Unreserved coaches & 1 Pantry Car."
Service
The 12137 Punjab Mail covers the distance of 1930 kilometres in 34 hours 00 mins (56.76 km/hr) & in 33 hours 55 mins as 12138 Punjab Mail (56.90 km/hr).
"Mount Fuji (富士山, Fujisan?, IPA: [ɸɯᵝꜜdʑisaɴ] ( listen)), located on Honshu Island, is the highest mountain in Japan at 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft).[1] An active stratovolcano that last erupted in 1707–08,[5][6] Mount Fuji lies about 100 kilometres (60 mi) south-west of Tokyo, and can be seen from there on a clear day. Mount Fuji's exceptionally symmetrical cone, which is snow-capped several months a year, is a well-known symbol of Japan and it is frequently depicted in art and photographs, as well as visited by sightseers and climbers."
(video) Mount Fuji as seen from an airplane and as seen from a bullet train
"Mount Fuji is an attractive volcanic cone and a frequent subject of Japanese art especially after 1600, when Edo (now Tokyo) became the actual capital and people saw the mountain while traveling on the Tōkaidō road. Among the most renowned works are Hokusai's 36 Views of Mount Fuji and his One Hundred Views of Mount Fuji, as well as Utagawa Hiroshige's similarly titled 36 Views of Mount Fuji (1858).[16] The mountain is mentioned in Japanese literature throughout the ages and is the subject of many poems.[17]"
"It is thought that the first recorded ascent was in 663 by an anonymous monk. [citation needed] The summit has been thought of as sacred since ancient times and was forbidden to women until the Meiji Era. Ancient samurai used the base of the mountain as a remote training area, near the present day town of Gotemba. The shogun Minamoto no Yoritomo held yabusame in the area in the early Kamakura period. Founded by Nikko Shonin in 1290 on the lower alps of Mount Fuji in Shizuoka Prefecture is the Taisekiji temple complex, a central base and headquarters of Nichiren Shoshu Buddhism."
Brooklyn Museum – woodblock print of Mount Fuji
"Today, Mount Fuji is an international destination for tourism and mountain climbing.[22][23] In the early 20th century, populist educator Frederick Starr's Chautauqua lectures about his several ascents of Mount Fuji—1913, 1919, and 1923—were widely known in America.[24] A well-known Japanese saying suggests that a wise person will climb Mt. Fuji once in their lifetime, but only a fool would climb it twice.[25][26] It remains a popular meme in Japanese culture, including making numerous movie appearances,[27] inspiring the Infiniti logo,[28] and even appearing in medicine with the Mount Fuji sign.[29][30]"
Panoramic view of routes to Mt. Fuji
Geography
"Mount Fuji is a distinctive feature of the geography of Japan. It stands 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft) high and is located near the Pacific coast of central Honshu, just west of Tokyo. It straddles the boundary of Shizuoka and Yamanashi prefectures. Three small cities surround it: Gotemba to the east, Fujiyoshida to the north, and Fujinomiya to the southwest. It is also surrounded by five lakes: Lake Kawaguchi, Lake Yamanaka, Lake Sai, Lake Motosu and Lake Shoji.[32] They, and nearby Lake Ashi, provide views of the mountain. The mountain is part of the Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park. It can be seen more distantly from Yokohama, Tokyo, and sometimes as far as Chiba, Saitama, Tochigi and Lake Hamana when the sky is clear. Particularly in the winter it can be seen from the Shinkansen until it reaches Utsunomiya station. It has also been photographed from space during a space shuttle mission (see image, below).[33]"
3D computer animation Aerial photographs of Mount Fuji Mount Fuji as viewed across the Tokyo skyline Mount Fuji as seen during the ill-fated Space Shuttle Columbia mission in 2003 Mount Fuji with a Shinkansen and cherry blossoms in the foreground American battleship USS New Mexico (BB-40) anchored in Tokyo Bay circa August 1945. Mt. Fuji is in the background.
Monorail
"The Mumbai Monorail, which opened on 2 February 2014 is the first operational monorail system used for rapid transit in independent India.[76] Many other Indian cities have monorail projects, as a feeder system to the metro, in different phases of planning."
Metro rail
"There are currently 8 operational metro systems in India. As of September 2016, India has 324 km of operational metro lines. A further 520 km of lines are under construction.[10]"
"Metro rail lines in India are composed of both standard gauge and broad gauge. Projects like the Delhi Metro used broad gauge for their earliest lines but most new projects in India are on standard gauge as rolling stock imported from Europe is on Standard Gauge. One exception is the Ahmedabad Metro, which will use Broad gauge, as there is more space available inside the coach.[11]"
"Rapid transit in India consists of bus, metro, monorail and light rail systems. The first rapid transit system in India was the Kolkata Metro, which started operations in 1984. The Delhi Metro was India's first modern metro and the third rapid transit system in India overall, after the Kolkata Metro and Chennai Mass Rapid Transit System (Chennai MRTS), beginning operations in 2002. Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon, which started operations in November 2013, is India's first privately owned and operated metro.[1] The Mumbai Monorail, which opened on 7 February 2014 is the first monorail in India, since the closing of the Patiala State Monorail Trainways in 1927."
Light rail
Metro Coach factories in India
BEML Bharat Earth Movers limited manufactures of Rolling Stock consortium with Hyundai Mitsubishi Rotem BEML.
"In 2006, the National Urban Transport Policy proposed the construction of a metro rail system in every city with a population of 20 lakh.[2] On 11 August 2014, Union Urban Development Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu announced that the Union Government would provide financial assistance, for the implementation of a metro rail system, to all Indian cities having population of more than 1 million.[3][4] In May 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the Union Urban Development Ministry's proposal to implement metro rail systems in 50 cities. The majority of the planned projects will be implement through special purpose vehicles, which will be established as 50:50 joint ventures between the Union and respective State Government. The Union Government will invest an estimated ₹5 lakh crore (US$74 billion).[5][6] Currently, rapid transit systems operate in 15 cities and more are under construction or in planning in several cities of India.[7][8]"
Bus Rapid Transit System
Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) is a rapid transit for city bus service in India. The following table shows BRTS in India along with details.
Rapid transit in India
"The Tungabhadra River is a river in India that starts and flows through the state of Karnataka during most of its course, before flowing along the border between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and ultimately joining the Krishna River along the border of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In the epic Ramayana, the Tungabhadra River was known by the name of Pampa."
The Two Coracles
"The Tungabhadra River is formed by the confluence of the Tunga River and the Bhadra River at Koodli which flow down the eastern slope of the Western Ghats in the state of Karnataka.The 2 rivers originate in Chikmagalur District of Karnataka along with the Nethravathi (west-flowing river, joining the Arabian Sea near Mangalore), the Tunga and the Bhadra rise at Gangamoola, in Varaha Parvatha in the Western Ghats at an elevation of 1198 metres. The Bhadra river flows through the industrial city Bhadravathi. More than 100 tributaries, streams, creeks, rivulets and the like contribute to the two rivers. The journey of the Tunga and the Bhadra is 147 km (91 mi) and 171 km (106 mi) respectively, till they join at Koodli, at an elevation of about 610 metres near Holehonnur, about 15 km (9.3 mi) from Shivamogga, areca granary of the country. It is a confluence of both the Dwaitha and the Adwaitha philosophies. From there, the Tungabhadra meanders through the plains to a distance of 531 km (330 mi) and mingles with the Krishna at Gondimalla, near the famous Alampur in Mahaboobnagar District of Telangana . The Varada flowing through Shimoga, Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts and Hagari in Chitradurga, Bellary district, Koppal District and Raichur Districts in Karnataka and the Handri in Kurnool distriict of A.P. are the main tributaries of the Tungabhadra. Many rivulets and streams join these tributaries."
"Contemplating the river, in Hampi"
"There are many holy places all along the rivers: primarily temples of Saiva Cult on the banks of the Bhadra and all the cults on the banks of the Tunga. Sringeri, Sarada Petham established by the Adi Shankaracharya is the most famous one on the left bank of the Tunga, about 50 km (31 mi) downstream of its origin. Manthralayam Sree Raghavendra Swamy Muth in Kurnool District and Alampur in Mahaboobnagar District, Jogulamba is the presiding deity, known as Dakshina Kashi are the other important pilgrimage centres. There is a cluster of Nava Brahma temples constructed by the early Chalukyas."
"An important feature of the river banks is the flood protection walls all along the rivers, constructed by Sri Krishna Devaraya between 1525 and 1527 AD. You find them wherever there is a possibility of land erosion during the floods. It starts at Sringeri and ends at Kurnool, just few kilometers from its mouth. They are stone constructions and still intact. Huge boulders of 3' x 4' x 5' are also used in its construction."
Near Hampi
"Piles of granite in varying shades of grey, ochre and pink dominate the landscape. The river has cut through weaker rocky substrata of the Hampi landscape and created a narrow gorge where granite hills confine the river in a deep ravine.[1]"
"In this setting the ruins of Vijayanagara and Hampi, the seat of power of the Vijayanagar empire, overlook this holy river, creating a mythological landscape merging sacred traditions about a multitude of significant divinities.[2]"
"Shringeri Sharadamba Temple is on the banks of the Tunga River in Chikmagalur District, Karnataka."
Dams
"About 15 km upstream from Shimoga at Gajanur across the River Tunga, a dam was constructed. At Lakkavalli about 15 km upstream of Bhadravati across the Bhadra a dam was constructed. They are multipurpose dams and irrigate lands in Shimoga, Chikkamagalur, Davanagere and Haveri."
"Dam on river in Hosapete, Bellary District"
Reservoir of the dam
Hotels and restaurants
"Mumbai, India has centuries of history and many sites of tourist interest.[1] Some of them are:"
Malls and markets
Museums
Places of worship
Churches
Hindu temples
Mosques
Synagogues
"Amusements, parks, studia and zoos"
"Beaches, dams and lakes"
Caves
Cinemas and film studios
Forts
"Gilbert Hill is a 200 ft (61 m) monolith column of black basalt rock at Andheri, in Mumbai, India. The rock has a sheer vertical face and was formed when molten lava was squeezed out of the Earth's clefts during the Mesozoic Era about 66 million years ago. During that era, molten lava had spread around most of the Indian states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, covering an area of 50,000 square kilometres (19,000 sq mi). The volcanic eruptions were also responsible for the destruction of plant and animal life during that era.[1]"
"According to experts, this rare geological phenomenon was the remnants of a ridge and had clusters of vertical columns in nearby Jogeshwari which were quarried off two decades ago. These vertical columns are similar to the Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming, and the Devils Postpile National Monument in eastern California, USA.[2]"
"Gilbert Hill was declared a National Park in 1952 by the Central Government under the Forest Act. In 2007, after years of lobbying by geologists, the hill was declared a Grade II heritage structure by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), and all quarrying and other activities around the monument were prohibited.[2] Over the period of time, Gilbert Hill has faced severe erosion problems too.[3]"
"Atop the rock column, two Hindu temples, the Gaodevi and Durgamata temples, set in a small garden, are accessed by a steep staircase carved into the rock. The hill offers a panoramic view of suburban Mumbai."
Efforts are being made to convert Gilbert Hill into a tourist attraction and include it as stop on tour of Mumbai by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation.[4]
Gilbert Hill
"Jijamata Udyaan formerly called Ranichi Bagh (meaning Queen's Gardens) after the original British name Victoria Gardens, and now also known as Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, is a zoo and garden located at Byculla, in the heart of Mumbai, India. It was laid out in 1861 and is one of the oldest zoos in India."
Jijamata Udyaan
"Modak Sagar is a lake located in Thane district on the Vaitarna River. It has an overflow level of 163.15 meters, making it the second largest of the lakes supplying water to the city of Mumbai.[1][2]"
Access
"The Dam premises are protected by the state government. Access is only for officials from the BMC, however if you wish to see the dam you need to take permission from their head office at VT(now CST). [3]"
Hydrology and dam features
Flora and fauna
The lake is home to crocodiles that inhabit the shallow waters near its coast
"Tulshi dam, is an earthfill and gravity dam on Tulshi river in Mumbai near Mulund in the state of Maharashtra in India."
Specifications
"The height of the dam above its lowest foundation is 26 m (85 ft) while the length is 186 m (610 ft). The gross storage capacity is 10,429.00 km3 (2,502.05 cu mi).[2]"
Drinking water Water supply
Hanging Gardens
"The Hanging Gardens, in Mumbai, also known as Pherozeshah Mehta Gardens, are terraced gardens perched at the top of Malabar Hill, on its western side, just opposite the Kamala Nehru Park. They provide sunset views over the Arabian Sea and feature numerous hedges carved into the shapes of animals. The park was laid out in 1881 by Ulhas Ghapokar over Bombay's main reservoir, some say to cover the water from the potentially contaminating activity of the nearby Towers of Silence. When seen from the air, the walkway inside the park (Hanging Gardens Path), spell out the letters PMG(Pherozeshah Mehta Gardens) in cursive."
Aksa Beach
Sunset at the Aksa Beach
"Aksa Beach is a popular beach and a vacation spot in Aksa village at Malad, Mumbai, India. It is situated close to Malvani.[1][2]"
"This beach was one of the most silent and least visited beaches. It was very clean you could find a large variety of snails and shells. It is a popular weekend destination with youngsters. It is dotted with many private cottages and hotels, some of which are rented out to tourists and visitors.[1]"
"This beach has INS Hamla (a base of the Indian Navy) at one end and a small beach called ""Dana Paani""."
"It is accessible from Malad (West) station by select BEST buses from Borivali railway station, enroute to Madh Island, and also by private transport and auto rickshaws. The beach is approximately 9 km from Malad station and 12 km from Borivali. It can also be reached from Andheri (West) railway station by BEST buses from Versova bus stop. From Versova village, local buses are available for Madh Island. It takes approximately 20 minutes."
Safety
"It is not safe to swim as the currents are strong and the sands of the beach keep shifting because of the waves and people often misjudge them. Warning signs of swimming prohibition, have been put on the beach and lifeguards have been appointed, however accident are common, due to rapidly changing tides, and merging to two tide currents on the rocky beach and people ignoring warnings.[3][4][5][6] The beach gets even more dangerous during Monsoon season, though 15,000 people are visiting the beach during weekends.[7]"
People teargassed at Gowalia Tank Maidan
"Gowalia Tank Maidan (now also known as August Kranti Maidan)[1] is a park in central Mumbai where Mahatma Gandhi issued the Quit India speech on 8 August 1942 decreeing that the British must leave India immediately or else mass agitations would take place. Gandhi's call for the nation was of ""Do or Die"".[2] The call mobilised the citizens to a huge Civil Disobedience movement as the British refused to grant independence till the War was over."
"The Gowalia Tank was initially used to bathe cows. Go - Walia comes from the marathi word Gaie (cow) Wala (owner of the cattle). The cattle owners would bring the cows to be bathed in the waters of the tank. The Maidan that exists over there presently was built over the tank, which still exists underground. Gowalia Tank was also a very prominent tram terminus. Trams would start and finish there and one could travel to the Prince of Wales Museum in one anna (six paise)."
"A central road cuts through the maidan grounds and connects the August Kranti Road with Hughes Road. The ground connects Tejpal Road and Laburnum Road, Alexandra Road and August Kranti Road."
Gowalia Tank
The Eros Cinema
"The Eros Cinema is an Art Deco style cinema located in Mumbai, India. It has a seating capacity of 1,204 people per show.[1]"
"Architects Shorabji Bhedwar designed the Streamline Moderne building, it marked the beginning of Back Bay reclamation in early 1938.[2]"
"The foundation of Eros Cinema was laid in 1935.[2] The cinema opened in 1938 and construction of this building on the then newly reclaimed Backbay plot housing shops and other businesses, apart from the cinema, took about two and a half years to complete. Partially faced with red Agra sandstone, this building is painted cream. The two wings of this Art Deco building meet up in a central block. The foyer is in white and black marble with touches of gold. Marble staircases with chromium handrails lead up to the upper floor. The murals are in muted colours depicting Indian architectures."
"The Mahim Fort (Marathi: माहीम किल्ला) is a fort in Mahim in Mumbai, Maharashtra state, India.[2] Strategically located in the Mahim Bay, the fort overlooks Worli to the south, Bandra to the north, and Mahim to the east. The origins of the fort are unclear, but it occupies a strategic location that has been frequently contested. The fort is currently in disrepair, suffering from administrative neglect, encroachment of slums, and exposure to tidal erosion."
"In 1516, Portuguese commander Dom Joao de Monoy entered the Mahim Creek and defeated the commander of Mahim fort.[3] The fort was the site of frequent skirmishes between the Portuguese and the Ali Shah, a Gujarati ruler, before the island of Mahim was appropriated from Bahadur Shah of Gujarat by the Portuguese in 1534. In 1661, the Portuguese ceded the island of Mahim as dowry to Charles II of England. After the English gained control of the fort, it was strengthened by Sir Thomas Grantham in 1684,[2] and became a strategic watchtower against possible Portuguese attacks, and later from the Marathas.[2]"
"In 1772, the Portuguese attempted to attack this fort, but they were repelled by the British with cannonballs.[2] The Mount Mary's Basilica was damaged during this encounter. According to historical accounts, the fort had 100 soldiers and 30 cannons at that time.[2]"
Encroachments
"The fort lies off the Mahim Causeway which links the suburbs to the city. The fort is heavily encroached by slums, and parts of the fort have caved in due to tidal erosion and neglect. Though the site is classified as a Grade I heritage structure, nothing much has been done to maintain it.[1] Large boulders are strewn on the sand and crevices as high as three metres (fifteen feet) are visible. Responsibility of the fort is shuffled between the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, although the fort lies of state government land.[1] In 2004, rupees five lakhs had to be returned as the encroachments were not removed by local authorities.[5] Later, in 2008, Jairaj Phatak, the Municipal Commissioner had proposed a makeover to the fort.[6]"
"Sri Sri Radha Parthasarathi Mandir (Hindi: श्री श्री राधा पार्थसारथी मन्दिर), generally known as the ISKCON Delhi temple, is a well known Vaishnav temple of Lord Krishna and Radharani in the form of Radha Parthasarathi. Opened in 1998, it is located at Hare Krishna Hills, in the East of Kailash area of New Delhi, India.It is one of the top tourist place in Delhi to visit.It is not just a temple but also a Vedic Learning Center in very scientific way."
Temple Complex
"ISKCON Temple, designed and built by Achyut Kanvinde who in 1993 agreed to accept a pro-bono commission to build this temple complex for the followers of Srila Prabhupada,[1] is one of the largest temple complexes in India. It comprises numerous rooms for priests and for service renders. It has many halls that are used for its administration purposes and various seminars. It is divided into four broad sections.[citation needed]"
Old map of the region (post 1805).
"The Worli Fort is a fort built by the British in Worli, Mumbai, India.[1] The fort, often mistakenly referred to as being built by the Portuguese, was actually built by the British around 1675. The fort, built on the Worli hill, overlooked the Mahim Bay at a time the city was made up of just seven islands. It was used as a lookout for enemy ships and pirates."
Worli Fort
"Aadharshila (English: The Foundation Stone) is a 1982 Hindi film written, produced and directed by Ashok Ahuja, and starring Naseeruddin Shah and Anita Kanwar."
The film won the Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie and the Indira Gandhi Award for Best First Film of a Director.[1]
Synopsis
"The film is about Ajay (Naseeruddin Shah), a young filmmaker, hoping to direct his first film. He has just got married, and he shares his hopes with his wife Asha (Anita Kanwar). Asha works as a teacher to support them while Ajay take on other work, but always hoping to make his film. Aadharshila portrays the struggles of young people - especially graduates of the Film and Television Institute of India - to find a foothold in the Indian film industry. The film ends with the completion of the film-within-a-film."
Soundtrack
Cast
"The film has an ensemble cast - almost a who's who of the parallel cinema in India. Except for Naseeruddin Shah, for most of the others it was their first film, even though other films may have been released earlier."
Awards
"Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie Indira Gandhi Award for Best First Film of a Director Film Ducat, International Filmfestival Mannheim-Heidelberg [2]"
Film Festivals
This is an incomplete list of forests in India.
Baga Beach in North Goa
This is a list of the notable beaches in India. List is sorted by states anti-clockwise.
West coast
Gujarat
Maharashtra
Goa
Karnataka
Kerala
East coast
West Bengal
Odisha
Puri Beach
Gahirmatha Beach Gopalpur-on-Sea Puri Beach Talsari Beach Konark Beach
Andhra Pradesh
Tamil Nadu
Pondicherry
Others
"A botanical garden is a place where plants, especially ferns, conifers and flowering plants, are grown and displayed for the purposes of research and education. This distinguishes them from parks and pleasure gardens where plants, usually with beautiful flowers, are grown for public amenity Botanical gardens that specialize in trees are sometimes referred to as arboreta. They are occasionally associated with zoos."
List of botanical gardens
"Bay of Bengal in the east, moving along the Indian coast southward to Kanyakumari, then northward along the Arabian Sea. Tributary rivers are listed hierarchically in upstream order: the lower in the list, the more upstream."
Rivers flowing into Arabian Sea
The biggest major rivers of India are:
The remaining rivers are as follows:
Flowing into the Inner part of Coastal rivers.
Rivers flowing into Bay of Bengal
This is a list of notable waterfalls in India sorted by state.
Bibliography
This is a list of mountains and mountain ranges in India.
Other significant mountains
Mountain ranges
"Japanese mythology embraces Shinto and Buddhist traditions as well as agriculturally-based folk religion. The Shinto pantheon comprises innumerable kami (Japanese for ""god(s)"" or ""spirits""). This article will discuss only the typical elements present in Asian mythology, such as cosmogony, important deities, and the best-known Japanese stories."
"Japanese myths, as generally recognized in the mainstream today, are based what the Kojiki, the Nihon Shoki, and some complementary books. The Kojiki, or ""Record of Ancient Matters"", is the oldest surviving account of Japan's myths, legends and history. The Shintōshū describes the origins of Japanese deities from a Buddhist perspective, while the Hotsuma Tsutae records a substantially different version of the mythology.[1]"
Creation myth
"In the Japanese creation myth, the first deities which came into existence, appearing at the time of the creation of the universe, are collectively called Kotoamatsukami."
"The first two generations are individual deities called hitorigami, while the five that followed came into being as male/female pairs of kami: brothers and sisters that were also married couples. In this chronicle, the Kamiyonanayo comprise 12 deities in total.[2]"
Kuniumi and Kamiumi
Japan's creation narrative can be divided into the birth of the deities (Kamiumi) and the birth of the land (Kuniumi).
"To help them to achieve this, Izanagi and Izanami were given a naginata decorated with jewels, named Ame-no-nuboko (""Heavenly Jeweled Spear""). The two deities then went to the bridge between heaven and earth, Amenoukihashi (""Floating Bridge of Heaven"") and churned the sea below with the halberd. Drops of salty water formed the island, Onogoro (""self-forming""). The deities descended from the bridge of heaven and made their home on the island. Eventually, they fell in love and wished to mate. So they built a pillar called Amenomihashira around which they built a palace called Yashirodono (""the hall whose area is 8 arms' length squared""). Izanagi and Izanami circled the pillar in opposite directions, and when they met on the other side, Izanami, the female deity, spoke first in greeting. Izanagi didn't think that this was proper, but they mated anyway. They had two children, Hiruko (""leech child"") and Awashima (""pale island""), but the children were badly formed and are not considered gods in their original form. (Hiruko later became the Japanese god, Ebisu.)"
"From their union were born the Ōyashima, or the eight great islands of Japan:"
"This page contains a list of notable websites that use a wiki model. These websites will sometimes use different software in order to provide the best content management system for their users' needs, but they all share the same basic editing and viewing website model."
"WikiArt[1][2] (formerly known as WikiPaintings) is an online, user-editable visual art encyclopedia. Based upon a statement in its 2013 financial report,[3] the site appears to be online since 2010. They claim to have reached 75,000 paintings, as of June, 2012.[4] As of February 2013[update] ""the Wiki functionality of the site is still under development"".[5] The developers are based in Ukraine.[6]"
WikiArt
"The British Empire in the East, 1919, showing the princely states coloured green, British India coloured red"
Sources and references
"This is a list of Indian princely states, as they existed during the British raj prior to 1947."
"Before the Partition of India in 1947, hundreds (565? [1]) of Princely States, also called Native States, existed in India which were not fully and formally part of British India but enjoyed a British protectorate and indirect rule. These were the parts of the Indian subcontinent which had not been conquered or annexed by the British, often former vassals of the Mughal Pashah (Emperor)."
The states are listed alphabetically; this list complements the List of princely states of British India which is arranged by region/colonial agency.
"Geographical and administrative assigning is indicative, as various names and borders have changed significantly, even entities (provinces, principalities) split, merged, renamed et cetera."
"Furthermore, criteria of statehood (used for inclusion) differ between sources."
Sortable list of former princely states
"Bonai State (Odia: ବଣାଇ), was a princely state during the British Raj in what is today India. It was one of the Chota Nagpur States and had its capital at Bonaigarh,[1] located in the present-day Sundergarh district of Odisha. It had an area of 8,907 square kilometres (3,439 sq mi) and a population of 24,026 in 1892."
"A legend states that Bonai was founded in the 12th century by one of four brothers belonging to the Kachwaha Rajput dynasty of Jaipur who were on a pilgrimage to Puri, another brother became the ruler of Talcher State and two others were killed.[2]"
"The rulers of Bonai were Rathore Rajputs, related to the dynasties ruling in the states of Seraikela, Kharsawan and Rairakhol. On 15 April 1948 Bonai's last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union.[3]"
Bonai State's rulers bore the title of 'Raja'.[4]
Rajas
1804–1851 : Dayanidhi Chandra Deo (died 1851) 1851–1876 : Chandra Deo (1805–1876) 12 Sep 1876 – 1898 : Indra Deo (1836/38–1898) 1898 – 19 Feb 1902 : Nilambar Chandra Deo (18..–1902) 19 Feb 1902 – 1947? : Dharani Dhar Deo (1884–19..)
"Bamra State or Bamanda State, covering an area of 5149 km², was one of the Princely states of India during the period of the British Raj, its capital was in Debagarh (Deogarh). Bamra State acceded to India in 1948."
"The state was located in a hilly area between the Mahanadi valley and the Chhota Nagpur Plateau.[1] Most of its territory was forest, producing timber and lac but said to be rich in iron ore. The most important river was the Brahmani River. The state was one of the five Orissa Tributary States which were transferred from the Central Provinces to Bengal on the reconstitution of that province in October 1905. The capital is Deogarh.[2]"
History
A legend states that the Raja of Bamra belonged to the Gangabasi Rajput dynasty of Patna. He is believed to have been stolen as a child and was made the ruler of the state of Bamra by the Bhuiya and Khond people around 1545.
"The Bengal-Nagpur Railway passed through the northeastern part of Bamra, with two stations in the state: Bamra Road and Garpos.[1] The state was under the political control of the Commissioner of the Chhattisgarh Division of the Central Provinces until 1905, under the Bengal Presidency until 1912, under the Bihar and Orissa Province until 1936 and under Orissa Province until it ceased to be a princely state. On 1 January 1948 Bamra's last princely ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union.[3][4]"
Rajas
"1673 - 1713 Bhagirath Deb 1713 - 1745 Pratap Deb 1745 - 1779 Sidasar Deb 1779 - 1819 Arjun Deb 1819 - 1832 Balunkabrusabha Deb 1832 Khageswar Deb 1832 - 12 May 1869 Brajasundar Deb ""Tribhuban Singh"" (d. 1869) 12 May 1869 - 19 Nov 1903 Basu Deb Sudhal Deb (b. 1850 - d. 1903) (from 1 Jan 1895, Sir Basu Deb Sudhal Deb) 12 May 1869 - 1871 .... -Regent 19 Nov 1903 - 11 Mar 1916 Satchitananda Tribhuban Deb (d. 1916/18) 11 Mar 1916 - 1 Jan 1920 Dibyashankar Sudhal Deb (d. 1920) 1 Jan 1920 - 15 Aug 1947 Bhanuganga Tribhuban Deb (b. 1914 - d. 1982) 1 Jan 1920 - 1935 .... -Regent"
"Daspalla State (Odia: ଦଶପଲ୍ଲା; Hindi: दस्पल्ला) was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. Its capital was Kunjabangarh, located in present-day Nayagarh district, Odisha."
"Daspalla was formed during the last part of 15th century after being separated from Baudh State. Records found at Baudh state reveal that Daspalla was founded in 1498 by Naran Bhanj, a younger son of Raja Narayan Bhanj Deo of Baudh, during the reign of Siddya Bhanj."
"Available records in writings and books reveal that at first there was no such place known as Daspalla. Rather it was a part of Baudh State ruled by the Bhanj dynasty of Rajput kings. During the rule of Bira Bhanj there was a rift in between Bira Bhanj and his cousin, Sal Bhanj. The dissident Sal Banj left Baudh and went to meet the Gajapati King of Puri through the ages old Jagannath Sadak. While resting with his followers at Padmatola Ghat, the king of Nayagarh got the news and made alliance with Sal Bhanj and declared him the king of that area. Getting the news, Bir Bhanj of Baudh got angry and sent troops to capture Sal Bhanj. But the troops of Baudh got defeated at the hands of Sal Bhanj and Nayagarh soldiers. As Sal Bhanj got Yasha (Fame) he named his kingdom as Yashpalla or Daspalla. Other historians tell that king Sal Bhanj had only das (Oriya for 10) Pallies (villages) so Daspalli got renamed as Daspalla. This incident took place in 1495. King Sal Bhanj ruled for 3 years only and then his son Naran Bhanj ascended the throne."
"The headquarters of Daspalla State changed from Badmul to Gania, Gania to Madhyakhand, Madhyakhand to Puruna Daspalla. The ninth king of Daspalla Padmanav Bhanj, during hunting, saw a wonderful thing that a wild dove was hunting and defeating a Chhanchan (Bird of prey) so he thought the place a heroic one and decided to change his capital to that place. At that time there was a Kandha chieftain named Kunj Malik. King Padmanav Bhanj defeated Kunj Malik and established his capital there, naming it as Kunjabangarh after the name of Kunja Malik.[1]"
Rulers
Guri Charan Deo Bhanj was crowned ruler in 1803. He was succeeded by a line of titular Rajas.[3]
"Kalahandi State (Odia: କଳାହାଣ୍ଡି; Hindi: कालाहंडी), also known as Karond State, was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. It was recognized as a state in 1874[1] and had its capital in Bhawanipatna. Its last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1948."
"Kalahandi was the largest of the 26 Feudatory states of Odisha. According to local tradition the state originated with Raja Raghunath Sai of the Naga dynasty beginning to rule the Kalahandi area in 1005, therefore the state's coat of arms had two cobras facing each other.[2]"
"In August 1947 Kalahandi became part of the Eastern States Union, an entity that was formed in Rajpur and that gathered most of the princely states of Orissa and Chhattisgarh. The Eastern States Union was dissolved in 1948.[3] The formerly princely state's territory is now within Kalahandi District."
The rulers of Kalahandi princely state belonged to the Nagavamshi Rajput Dynasty[4] and were granted a hereditary salute of 9 guns by the British.[5]
1005 - 1040 Raghunath Sai .......... (20 rajas) 1693 - 1721 Jugasai Deo III 1721 - 1747 Khadag Rai Deo 1747 - 1771 Raisingh Deo III 1771 - 1796 Purusottam Deo 1796 - 1831 Jugasai Deo IV 1831 - 1853 Fateh Narayan Deo 1853 - 7 Apr 1881 Udit Pratap Deo (b. 1839? - d. 1881) 7 Apr 1881 – 20 Oct 1897 Raghu Kesari Deo (b. 1871 - d. 1897) 20 Oct 1897 - 1926 Brij Mohan Deo (b. 1896 - d. 1939)
Palace gate of the Niligiri Rajas in Nilagiri.
"Nilgiri State was one of the Princely States of India during the British Raj. It belonged to the Orissa States Agency and its capital was at Raj Nilgiri,[1] which is the modern town of Nilagiri."
"The state was bounded in the north and west by the State of Mayurbhanj and in the south by Balasore District. As of 1940 Nilgiri State had a population of 73,109 and an area of 263 square miles (680 km2). In 1949 it was merged into Balasore District.[2]"
According to local tradition Nilgiri state was founded in 1125 by a mytical ancestor coming from the Chhota Nagpur region. In 1525 Raja Narayan Singh distinguished himself by his service to Emperor Akbar in the battles against Afghan invaders. Between 1611 and 1797 there were seven successive rulers.
"During the time of the political integration of India freedom fighters such as Balaram Raj, Shyamsundar Parida, Kailashchandra Mohanty, Banamali Das, Baishnab Patnaik and Nanda Kishore Patnaik forced the last Raja of Nilgiri to surrender to the newly formed Indian National Government. The prince signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1948.[3]"
"The rulers of Nilgiri State were Rajputs of the Bhanj dynasty.[4] They bore the title of 'Raja', 'Rani' in the case of female ruler Chira Devi.[5]"
Narsinghpur State (Odia: ନରସିଂହପୁର) was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. The state was founded in 1305 and had its capital in Narasinghpur town. The last ruler of Narsinghpur joined the state to the Indian Union in 1948 and Narsinghpur state was made part of the Cuttack district of Orissa.[1]
The state was bound in the north by a forested mountain range which marked the border with Hindol State and Angul District; in the east it was bound by Baramba State and in the south and southwest by the Mahanadi River.[2]
"According to legend Narsinghpur was founded in 1292 by a Rajput named Dharma Singh after defeating two powerful Khond chiefs named Narsingh and Poro, the state being named after the former."
"Rairakhol State (Odia: ରେଢ଼ାଖୋଲ; Hindi: रायखोल), was a princely state during the British Raj in what is today India. It was one of the Chota Nagpur States and had its capital at Rairakhol (Redhakhol), located in the present-day Sambalpur district of Odisha. It had an area of 2,157 square kilometres (833 sq mi) and a population of 26,888 in 1901."
"Most of the state was covered by forest where wild elephants used to roam. Rairakhol State's inhabitants spoke mostly the Odia language, although there were also large Kol people groups speaking Munda and Oraon language. The Chasa caste was the predominant caste in the state.[1]"
"Rairakhol was a feudatory state to Bamra until the 18th century, when the Garhjat Rajas of Patna freed it from its dependence. According to local tradition the wars between Bamra and Rairakhol used to be constant and during one of these wars the whole of the Rairakhol ruling family was destroyed except for one boy who was hidden by a woman of the Butka Sudh caste —a local caste of agricultural workers. When the soldiers of the King of Bamra Raja came they could not find him and the child was saved. After he became an adult he won back his kingdom and in gratitude the Butka Sudhs are considered by the Rairakhol ruling house as relatives on the mother's side.[1] The rulers of Rairakhol were Rathore Rajputs, related to the dynasties ruling in the states of Seraikela, Kharsawan and Bonai."
"During the 19th century Raja Bishan Chandra Janamuni's reign lasted 75 years. The state was under the political control of the Commissioner of the Chhattisgarh Division of the Central Provinces until 1905, coming then under the Bengal Presidency. On 1 January 1948 Rairakhol's last ruler, Raja Girish Chandra Deo, signed the instrument of accession to the Indian Union.[2]"
Rairakhol State's rulers bore the title of 'Raja'.[3]
1825 - 1900 Bishan Chandra Janamuni (b. 1818/19 - d. 1900) 1900 - Jul 1906 Gauro Chandra Deo (b. 1870 - d. 1906) 3 Jul 1906 - 193. Bir Chandra Jadumani Deo Janamuni (b. 1894 - d. 1973) 193. - 15 Aug 1947 Girish Chandra Deo
The old fort of Sambalpur in 1825
"Sambalpur, also known as Sumbhulpore and as Hirakhand, was a princely state in India during the British Raj. Its capital was in Sambalpur town, now in Odisha state. In 1849 the state was annexed by British India.[1] Its area was 1,399 square km with a population of 79,900 persons according to the 1901 census."
"Sambalpur State was founded in mid 15th century by Balaram Deo,[2] a Rajput from Chauhan dynasty and younger brother of kingdom of Patna ruler Raja Narsingh Deo . In 1540 A.D., the kingdom of Patna, ruled by the Chauhan dynasty was bifurcated. The southern portion of the Ang River was ruled by Narasingh Deb and his brother Balaram Deb received the northern side of the river, known as Kingdom of Huma. Balaram Deb established his new capital at Sambalpur. Sambalpur was ruled by the Chauhan dynasty till 1800. The kingdom of Sambalpur was also known as Hirakhand and Sambalpur was its capital.[3]"
The Garhjat states were eighteen vassal states under Sambalpur State.[4] The Sambalpur kings favoured Sarangarh State owing to the readiness of its rulers to help their kingdom during military campaigns. Sambalpur was ruled by the Chauhan dynasty till 1800 when Sambalpur came under the Bhonsle dynasty of Nagpur State.[5]
"Sambalpur was invaded and occupied by the Marathas between 1808 and 1817. After the Third Anglo-Maratha War in 1817 the British Government returned Sambalpur to the Chauhan king, Jayant Singh, but his authority over its eighteen vassal states was withdrawn. The state was placed under British administration from 1818 to 1820, when local rule was restored and the principality became a British protectorate. When the ruler or the state died without a direct male heir in 1849, the British seized the state under the doctrine of lapse."
"In 1857 during the Sepoy Mutiny there was a rebellion led by Surendra Sai of the Sambalpur ruling family, later rennowned as 'Veer' (hero) Surendra Sai. The mutineers broke open the prison at Hazaribagh, where Surendra Sai was imprisoned and released all the prisoners. Surendra Sai fought against the British after reaching Sambalpur, eventually surrendering when the British suppressed the rebellion. In 1858 when Sambalpur was put under British administration it initially became part of the Cuttack division of the Bengal Presidency, but was transferred to the Central Provinces in 1862."
The male rulers of Sambalpur State bore the title of 'Raja' and the female ones 'Rani'.[6]
"Hindol State was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. Its former territory is now part of Dhenkanal district. The state's former capital was the town of Hindol, Odisha. Until 1947, it was not part of British India but was subject to the suzerainty of the British crown, under the Orissa States Agency."
"The state of Hindol was founded in 1554 by two brothers named Lakshman Mahratta and Bharat Mahratta belonging to the family of the Khimedi Raja of Ganjam, which also ruled over areas in the Madras region.[1] After the East India Company occupied Orissa in September–October 1803 treaties were signed with estates of the region, including Hindol."
"After the independence of India in 1947 Hindol merged into Republic of India on 1 January 1948.[2] Thereafter in 1948, once the all princely states including Dhenkanal, Talcher, Athmallik, Pal Lahara and Hindol formally merged with the province of Orissa, the present Dhenkanal district was created.[3]"
The rulers of Hindol were of Rajput origin and had the title of Raja.[4][5]
"This is a list of countries and territories formerly ruled or administered by the United Kingdom or part of the British Empire, with their independence days. Some countries did not gain their independence on a single date, therefore the latest day of independence is shown with a break down of dates further down."
Territories excluding Dominions
"Sonepur (Odia: ସୋନପୁର୍; Hindi: सोनपुर), also known as Sonpur State, was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. Its ruler was entitled to a nine gun salute.[1] Formerly it was placed under the Central India Agency, but in 1905 it was transferred to the Eastern States Agency.[2] Its capital was Sonepur, the only significant town in the area. The former state's territory is in the present-day Subarnapur district, Odisha."
Sonepur state was founded in 1556. It was ruled by Rajputs belonging to the Chauhan dynasty. The state became a British protectorate on 13 Dec 1826. The ruling family was awarded with the title Raja Bahadur for services rendered to the British during the Sambalpur uprising.[3] The last ruler of this princely state signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1948.[4]
The ancient rulers of Sonepur State bore the title of 'Raja'. The last two had the title of 'Maharaja'.[5]
"8 Nov 1908 - 29 Apr 1937 Bir Mitrodaya Singh Deo (s.a.) (from 1 Jan 1918, Sir Bir Mitrodaya Singh Deo) 29 Apr 1937 - 15 Aug 1947 Sudhansu Shekhar Singh Deo (b. 1899 - d. 1963)"
"Ajaigarh State was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. The state was founded in 1785 and its capital was located in Ajaigarh, Madhya Pradesh."
Ajaigarh's last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1950.[1]
"Ajaigarh was the capital of a princely state of the same name during the British Raj. Ajaigarh was founded in 1765 by Guman Singh, a Bundela Rajput who was the nephew of Raja Pahar Singh of Jaitpur State. After Ajaigarh was captured by the British in 1809, it became a princely state in the Bundelkhand Agency of the Central India Agency. It had an area of 771 mile² (1997 km²), and a population of 78,236 in 1901. The rulers bore the title of sawai maharaja. He commanded an estimated annual revenue of about £15,000/-, and paid a tribute of £460/-. The chief resided at the town of Nowgong, at the foot of the hill-fortress of Ajaigarh, from which the state took its name.[2] This fort, situated on a steep hill, towers more than 800 ft (244 m) above the eponymous township, and contains the ruins of several temples adorned with elaborately carved sculptures. The town was often afflicted by malaria, and suffered severely from famine in 1868-1869 and 1896-1897."
"The state acceded to the Government of India on January 1, 1950; the ruling chief was granted a privy purse of Rs. 74,700/-, and the courtesy use of his styles and titles. All of these were revoked by the government of India in 1971, at the time when these privileges were revoked from all erstwhile princes. The former princely state became part of the new Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh, and most of the territory of the former state, including the town of Ajaigarh, became part of Panna District, with a smaller portion going to Chhatarpur District. Vindhya Pradesh was merged into Madhya Pradesh on November 1, 1956."
Rulers Of Ajaigarh
"Maharajadhiraja Chhatrasal  : 1649-1731 (founder Ruler of many Kingdoms) ___________________________|______________________________ Hirdeshah Jagatraj Bhartichandra (Panna) (Jaitpur) (Jaso) ____________________________|______________________________ Vir Singh Kirat Singh Pahar Singh(1758–1765) ____________________________|______________________________ Khuman Singh Guman Singh(1765–1792) Durg Singh (Charkari) (Banda)(No issues) | |__________________Son of______| Bhakhat Singh  :b.1792-d.1837 (Founder ruler of Ajaigarh) |_______________________________ | | Madho Singh(R.1837-1849) Mahipat Singh(R.1849-1853) (No male issue) | | Ranjore Singh(K.C.I.E)___________Vijay Singh(R.1853-1855) (born 1844 died 1919) (Died early, fell from horse) | Punyapratap Singh born 1884-died 1958 | Devendra Vijay Singh born 1913-died 1984 (Privy Purses,titles abolished)"
Furisode
A young woman wearing a furisode kimono
Two maiko wearing kimono
A traditional red Uchikake kimono with cranes
"The kimono (着物?, きもの) [1] is a Japanese traditional garment. The word ""kimono"", which actually means a ""thing to wear"" (ki ""wear"" and mono ""thing""),[2] has come to denote these full-length robes. The standard plural of the word kimono in English is kimonos,[3] but the unmarked Japanese plural kimono is also sometimes used. The kimono is always used in important festival or formal moments, it is the representative of polite and a very formal clothing."
"Kimono has T-shaped, straight-lined robes worn so that the hem falls to the ankle, with attached collars and long, wide sleeves. Kimono are wrapped around the body, always with the left side over the right (except when dressing the dead for burial)[4] and secured by a sash called an obi, which is tied at the back. Kimono are generally worn with traditional footwear (especially zōri or geta) and split-toe socks (tabi).[5]"
"Today, kimono are most often worn by women and on special occasions. Traditionally, unmarried women wore a style of kimono called furisode,[5] with almost floor-length sleeves, on special occasions. A few older women and even fewer men still wear the kimono on a daily basis. Men wear the kimono most often at weddings, tea ceremonies, and other very special or very formal occasions. Professional sumo wrestlers are often seen in the kimono because they are required to wear traditional Japanese dress whenever appearing in public.[6]"
"Japanese dress under the Chinese and Korean influence with a distinctive overlapping collar. [7] (Takamatsuzuka Tomb, 8th century)"
"Stylized Kimono in the late Heian period. A few centuries after Japan demolished connections with China.[8](The Tale of Genji, 12th century)"
"The formal kimono was replaced by the more convenient Western clothes and yukata as everyday wear. After an edict by Emperor Meiji,[9] police, railroad men and teachers moved to Western clothes. The Western clothes became the army and school uniform for boys. After the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, kimono wearers often became victims of robbery because they could not run very fast due to the restricting nature of the kimono on the body and geta clogs. The Tokyo Women's & Children's Wear Manufacturers' Association (東京婦人子供服組合) promoted Western clothes. Between 1920 and 1930 the sailor outfit replaced the undivided hakama in school uniforms for girls. The 1932 fire at Shirokiya's Nihonbashi store is said to have been the catalyst for the decline in kimonos as everyday wear. Kimono-clad Japanese women did not wear panties and several women refused to jump into safety nets because they were ashamed of being seen from below. (It is, however, suggested, that this is an urban myth.)[10][11] The national uniform, Kokumin-fuku, a type of Western clothes, was mandated for males in 1940.[12][13][14] Today most people wear Western clothes and wear the breezier and more comfortable yukata for special occasions."
"In the Western world, kimono-styled women's jackets, similar to a casual cardigan,[15] gained public attention as a popular fashion item in 2014.[16]"
Modern styles of furisode
Parts
Diagram of the kimono parts
These terms refer to parts of a kimono:
"Dōura (胴裏?): upper lining on a woman's kimono. Eri (衿?): collar. Fuki (袘?): hem guard. Sode (袖?): sleeve below the armhole. Obi (帯?): a belt used to tuck excess cloth away from the seeing public. Maemigoro (前身頃?): front main panel, excluding sleeves. The covering portion of the other side of the back, maemigoro is divided into ""right maemigoro"" and ""left maemigoro"". Miyatsukuchi (身八つ口?): opening under the sleeve. Okumi (衽?): front inside panel on the front edge of the left and right, excluding the sleeve of a kimono. Until the collar, down to the bottom of the dress goes, up and down part of the strip of cloth. Have sewn the front body. It is also called ""袵"". Sode (袖?): sleeve.[5] Sodeguchi (袖口?): sleeve opening. Sodetsuke (袖付?): kimono armhole. Susomawashi (裾回し?): lower lining. Tamoto (袂?): sleeve pouch. Tomoeri (共衿?): over-collar (collar protector). Uraeri (裏襟?): inner collar. Ushiromigoro (後身頃?): back main panel, excluding sleeves, covering the back portion. They are basically sewn back-centered and consist of ""right ushiromigoro"" and ""left ushiromigoro"", but for wool fabric, the ushiromigoro consists of one piece."
Cost
A modern second hand kimono shop
"A woman's kimono may easily exceed US$10,000;[18] a complete kimono outfit, with kimono, undergarments, obi, ties, socks, sandals, and accessories, can exceed US$20,000. A single obi may cost several thousand dollars. However, most kimonos owned by kimono hobbyists or by practitioners of traditional arts are far less expensive. Enterprising people make their own kimono and undergarments by following a standard pattern, or by recycling older kimonos. Cheaper and machine-made fabrics can substitute for the traditional hand-dyed silk. There is also a thriving business in Japan for second-hand kimonos, which can cost as little as ¥500 (about $6). Women's obi, however, mostly remain an expensive item. Although simple patterned or plain colored ones can cost as little as ¥1,500 (about $18), even a used obi can cost hundreds of dollars, and experienced craftsmanship is required to make them. Men's obi, even those made from silk, tend to be much less expensive, because they are narrower, shorter and less decorative than those worn by women."
A traditional wedding kimono with tsunokakushi (wedding headpiece)
"Michelle Sun (born late 1980s) is a Hong Kong engineer, entrepreneur and teacher. In 2013, she founded First Code Academy which teaches Hong Kong children from the age of six how to code and create mobile applications. Teaching is given either in their school classrooms or in the firm's own offices.[1][2]"
Biography
"A native of Hong Kong, Sun completed her secondary school education with nine A's in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination. After graduating in economics at the University of Chicago, she joined Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong as a financial research analyst. In 2012, she followed a three-month bootcamp course on computer coding at the women-only Hackbright Academy in San Francisco. Sun, who had chosen the course after failing to learn coding from books, appreciated the assistance of Christian Fernandez, Hackbright's founder, who explained how all the pieces worked together.[2]"
"In 2015, Sun was selected by the BBC as one of the ""30 Under 30 Women Entrepreneurs"" and in 2016 by Forbes' ""30 Under 30 in Asia"".[5][6]"
See also
Noodles
Udon noodles
"Japanese noodles often substitute for a rice-based meal. Soba (thin, grayish-brown noodles containing buckwheat flour) and udon (thick wheat noodles) are the main traditional noodles, while ramen is a modern import and now very popular. There are also other, less common noodles."
Tea
"Green tea is produced in Japan and prepared in various forms such as matcha, the tea used in the Japanese tea ceremony.[29]"
Sweets
"Traditional Japanese sweets are known as wagashi. Ingredients such as red bean paste and mochi are used. More modern-day tastes includes green tea ice cream, a very popular flavor. Almost all manufacturers produce a version of it. Kakigori is a shaved ice dessert flavored with syrup or condensed milk. It is usually sold and eaten at summer festivals. A dessert very popular among the children in Japan are dorayaki. They are sweet pancakes filled with a sweet red bean paste. They are mostly eaten at room temperature but are also considered very delicious hot."
Beverages
Sake
"Sake is a brewed rice beverage that, typically, contains 15%~17% alcohol and is made by multiple fermentation of rice. At traditional formal meals, it is considered an equivalent to rice and is not simultaneously taken with other rice-based dishes, although this notion is typically no longer applied to modern, refined, premium (""ginjo"") sake, which bear little resemblance to the sakes of even 100 years ago. Side dishes for sake are particularly called sakana or otsumami."
"A Japanese meal including tempura, sashimi, and miso soup"
Chopsticks
"The proper usage of chopsticks (hashi) is the most important table etiquette in Japan. Chopsticks are never left sticking vertically into rice, as this resembles incense sticks (which are usually placed vertically in sand) during offerings to the dead. This may easily offend some Japanese people. Using chopsticks to spear food or to point is also frowned upon and it is considered very bad manners to bite chopsticks. Other important chopsticks rules to remember include the following: [citation needed]"
Further reading
Japanese cuisine has developed through centuries of social and economic changes. It encompasses the regional and traditional foods of Japan.
"Historically, the Japanese shunned meat, but with the modernization of Japan in the 1880s, meat-based dishes such as tonkatsu became common."
Japan has indigenous sweets called wagashi that include ingredients such as red bean paste.
"Japanese cuisine, particularly sushi, has become popular throughout the world. As of 2011, Japan overtook France in number of Michelin starred restaurants and has maintained the title since."
Overview of traditional Japanese cuisine
"Breakfast at a ryokan (Japanese inn), featuring grilled mackerel, Kansai style dashimaki egg, tofu in kaminabe (paper pot)"
"Japanese cuisine is based on combining the staple food, which is steamed white rice or gohan (御飯?), with one or several okazu or main dishes and side dishes. This may be accompanied by a clear or miso soup and tsukemono (pickles)."
Seasonality
"Emphasis is placed on seasonality of food or shun (旬?),[5][6] and dishes are designed to herald the arrival of the four seasons or calendar months."
"Use of (inedible) tree leaves and branches as decor is also characteristic of Japanese cuisine. Maple leaves are often floated on water to exude coolness or ryō (涼?), sprigs of nandina are popularly used. The haran (Aspidistra) and sasa bamboo leaves were often cut into shapes, and placed underneath or used as separators.[citation needed]"
The use of soy sauce is prevalent in Japanese cuisine
"Traditional Japanese food is typically seasoned with a combination of dashi, soy sauce, sake and mirin, vinegar, sugar, and salt. These are typically the only seasonings used when grilling or braising an item. A modest number of herbs and spices may be used during cooking as a hint or accent, or as a means of neutralizing fishy or gamy odors present. Examples of such spices include ginger and takanotsume (鷹の爪?) red pepper.[citation needed] This contrasts conceptually with barbecue or stew, where a blend of seasonings is used before and during cooking.[original research?]"
"Chhatrasal, the founder of Panna State, together with Maratha leader Shivaji."
"Queen Kanchan Prabha Devi, wife of the King of Tripura Bir Bikram Kishore Debbarman and regent (1947 - 1949), was the daughter of Maharaja Yadvendra Singh of Panna"
"Panna State was a princely state of colonial India, located in modern Panna district of Madhya Pradesh."
"The state of Panna belonged to the Bundelkhand Agency and covered an area of 6724 km² with 1,008 villages within its borders in 1901. It took its name from the chief town in the area, Panna, which was the capital of the state."
"A predecessor state was founded by one of the Raj Gond chiefs of the area around 1450.[2] Almost three centuries later Panna was the capital chosen by Bundela Rajput leader Chhatar Sal, the founder of Panna State, after leading a revolt against the Mughal Empire. He established an alliance with the Maratha Peshwa and made Panna his capital. After conquering Mahoba in 1680 Chhatar Sal extended his rule over most of Bundelkhand. Upon his death in 1732, his kingdom was divided among his sons, with one-third of the kingdom going to his son-in-law, the Peshwa Baji Rao I.[3]"
"The Kingdom of Panna went to Harde Sah, the eldest son of Chhatar Sal. In the early 19th century, Panna became a princely state of British India, and gained control states of the states of Nagod and Sohawal. Raja Nirpat Singh assisted the British in the Revolt of 1857, and the British rewarded him with the title Maharaja."
"Maharaja Madho Singh was deposed by the Viceroy in April 1902, after a commission found him guilty of poisoning his uncle, Rao Raja Khuman Singh, the previous year.[4]"
"Maharaja Mahendra Yadvendra Singh acceded to the Government of India on January 1, 1950, and the kingdom became Panna District of the new Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh. Vindhya Pradesh was merged into Madhya Pradesh on November 1, 1956."
Rulers
The rulers of the state belonged to the Bundela dynasty of Rajputs. They were entitled to an 11-gun salute by the British authorities.[5]
"Chhatarpur is a city and a municipality in Chhatarpur district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is the administrative headquarters of Chhatarpur District."
Flag of Princely Chhatarpur
"Chhatarpur was founded in 1785 and is named after the Bundela Rajput leader Chhatrasal, the founder of Bundelkhand independence, and contains his cenotaph. The state was ruled by his descendants until 1785. At that time the Ponwar clan of the Rajputs took control of Chhatarpur. The state was guaranteed to Kunwar Sone Singh Ponwar[1] in 1806 by the British Raj. In 1854 Chhatarpur would have lapsed to the British government for want of direct heirs under the doctrine of lapse, but was conferred on Jagat Raj as a special act of grace. The Ponwar Rajas ruled a princely state with an area of 1,118 square miles (2,900 km2), and population of 156,139 in 1901, which was part of the Bundelkhand agency of Central India."
"In 1901 the town of Chhatarpur had a population of 10,029, a high school and manufactured paper and coarse cutlery. The state also contained the British cantonment of Nowgaon.[2]"
Maharajas
"After the independence of India in 1947, the Rajas of Chhatarpur acceded to India, and Chhatarpur, together with the rest of Bundelkhand, became part of the Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh. Vindhya Pradesh was later merged into the state of Madhya Pradesh in 1956."
"Chhatarpur is located at 24°54′N 79°36′E﻿ / ﻿24.9°N 79.6°E﻿ / 24.9; 79.6.[4] It has an average elevation of 305 metres (1000 feet). It is located on the far north-east border of Madhya Pradesh, sharing its borders with the Banda district of Uttar Pradesh. It is 133 km from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh and 233 km from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh."
"As of 2011[update] India census,[5] Chhatarpur had a population of 147 669. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Chhatarpur has an average literacy rate of 69%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with male literacy of 75% and female literacy of 62%. 15% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Economy
"There is no large scale industry in Chhatarpur apart from a few small scale industries available, but these industries are not sufficient for giving enough employment for local people. The economy is mostly dependent on farming. The city however, has a growing private commercial sector, mainly retail businesses. There are many granite mining industries operating in Chhatarpur district."
"Khajuraho Dhubela, a museum 15 km from Chhatarpur Jatashankar, a holy place near Bijawar Bhimkund, a natural water tank and a holy place near Banja Raneh Falls, the only waterfall in Asia having igneous rock. It is around 17 km from Khajuraho Hanuman Tauria, a Hanuman temple Bambar Baini, Ancient temple of maa Durga on a hill in Lavkushnagar Panna National Park, near Panna district Pandav Falls, close to Khajuraho, Pandavas said to have sought shelter here during exile Hanuman Mandir, temple of Hanuman on a hill in Lavkushnagar"
Chhatarpur
Bibliography
"Bijawar State was a princely state of colonial India, located in modern Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh.[1]"
"The native state of Bijawar covered an area of 2520 km² (973 sq. m.) in the Bundelkhand Agency. Forests covered nearly half the total area of the state, which was believed to be rich in minerals, but lack of transport facilities had hindered the development of its resources."
"The state takes its name from the chief town, Bijawar, which was founded by Bijai Singh, one of the Gond chiefs of Garha Mandla, in the 17th century. The first ruler of the state was Bir Singh Deo (1765–93), a Bundela Rajput descended from the ruler of Orchha. It was conquered in the 18th century by Chhatarsal, the founder of Panna, a Rajput of the Bundela clan, by whose descendants it is still held.[2]"
"Bijawar became a British protectorate on 27 Mar 1811 and the rule of the territory was confirmed to Ratan Singh in 1811 by the British government for the usual deed of allegiance. In 1857 Bhan Pratap Singh rendered signal services to the British during the Revolt of 1857, being rewarded with certain privileges and a hereditary salute of eleven guns. In 1866 he received the title of Maharaja, and the prefix Sawai in 1877. Bhan Pratap was succeeded on his death in 1899 by his adopted son, Sanwant Singh, a son of the Maharaja of Orchha.[3][4]"
"The state acceded to India on 1 January 1950, and became part of the state of Vindhya Pradesh, which was merged into Madhya Pradesh on 1 November 1956."
The rulers of the state belonged to the Bundela dynasty.
Maharajas (title from 1877 Sawai Maharaja)
The symbols of Alipura State on a stamped paper.
Alipura was a princely state in what is today the Chhatarpur District in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh.[1]
"Alipura, the capital of the state is located between Gwalior and Satna at 25°10′31″N 79°20′08″E﻿ / ﻿25.1753400°N 79.3354900°E﻿ / 25.1753400; 79.3354900 and had a population of 3,232 according to the 1881 Census of India."
"The state was established in 1757 by Aman Singh, Raja of Panna State by granting the lands surrounding Alipura town to Achal Singh, son of Mukund Singh, who was the sardar of Panna at that time.[2] The principality became a British protectorate in 1808 and was made part of the Bundelkhand Agency of Central India.[3]"
The last ruler of Alipura signed the instrument of accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1950.[1]
The ruling family were members of the Bundela clan of the Ponwar line of Rajputs.[1] The rulers used the title Rao.[4]
Alipura palace
"Built by the rulers of Alipura State the main part of palace is about 150 years old, with a section that is over 3 centuries old. The building has been renovated and converted to a heritage hotel that is run by a direct descendant of the former ruling family.[5]"
"Charkhari Estate, was one of the Princely states of India during the period of the British Raj.[1] On India’s independence, this Princely state acceded to India. Currently Charkhari town, the former state's capital, is a part of Uttar Pradesh state."
"Charkhari State was founded in 1765 by Saurabh Singh Bundela, a Rajput of the Bundela clan, as an offshoot of Panna State. The last ruler of this Princely state signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1950.[2]"
"In 1804, under Raja Bikramajit Singh (1782–1829) rule, the state became a British protectorate. [3]"
1765 - 1782 Khuman Singh (b. ... - d. 1782) 1782 - Nov 1829 Bikramajit Singh (b. ... - d. 1829) 1829 - 1860 Ratan Singh 1860 - 1880 Jai Singh Deo (b. ... - d. 1880)
Maharajas
1880 - 6 Jul 1908 Malkhan Singh (b. 1872 - d. 1908) 6 Jul 1908 - 1914 Jujhar Singh 1914 - 5 Oct 1920 Ganga Singh 1920 - 8 Nov 1941 Arimardan Singh (b. 1903 - d. 1941) 8 Nov 1941 - 15 Aug 1947 Jayendra Singh (b. ... - d. 1977)
Khaniadhana or Khaniyadhana was a princely state of British India ruled by the Judev dynasty of Bundela Rajputs.[1] The capital of the State was Khaniadhana. It was part of the Bundelkhand Agency and later the Central India Agency.[2]
"The princely state of Khaniadhana, was made of several small enclaves, bounded on the east by the British district of Jhansi but otherwise completely surrounded by the Narwar district of Gwalior State. It was located to the west of Orchha State.[2] It covered a total area of 101 sq m spread over 55 villages and the total population of the territory during the British rule was 20,124 as per census of 1941.[2][3]"
"In 1724, Raja Udot Singh of Orchha State granted Khaniadhana and several other villages to his son Amar Singh. When the Marathas became the paramount power in Bundelkhand, the Peshwa granted Amar Singh a sanad in 1751 confirming him in his grant. After this time, suzerainty was always in dispute between Orchha and the Maratha state of Jhansi, the Peshwa’s eventual successor. When Jhansi State lapsed in 1854, the Khanadhiana jagirdar claimed absolute independence. The matter was only settled in 1862 when Khaniadhana was declared to be directly dependent from the British government as successor to the Jhansi darbar and the Peshwa.[3] The State was one of the original constituent members of the Chamber of Princes, an institution established in 1920.[2]"
"In 1948, the Khaniadhana State acceded to the Union of India and about half of Khaniadhana (27 villages) was included in Shivpuri district of Madhya Bharat while the other half (28 villages) was included in Vindhya Pradesh.,[4] which all are now part of Madhya Pradesh.[4]"
"The ruling family of Khaniadhana were Bundela Rajputs. The ruler of the princely state of Khaniadhana held the hereditary title of Rao or Jagirdar, but from the year 1911, the ruler was granted the title and style of Raja. It was a non-salute state and the native ruler or the Raja of the princely state exercised the powers and authority of a ruling chief.[3]"
1724-.... Amar Sinh 1760-1869 Unknown succession of Rajas 1869-1909 Chitra Singh 1909-1938 Khalak Singh 1938-1948 Davendra Pratap Singh
"Dhurwai was a princely state in India during the British Raj. It was one of the Hasht-Bhaiya Jagirs, under the Bundelkhand Agency of British India. Its capital was the town of Dhurwai, with a population of 777 in 1901.[1] Today it is part of Jhansi District, in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Dhurwai was administered by the native ruler, who was addressed as Indian Prince by the British authorities."
"Dhurwai State was founded in the Bundelkhand region in 1812 by a descendant of the royal family of Orchha Diwan Rai Singh of Baragaon near Jhansi. He had 8 sons who were granted Jagirs, including Dhurwai, Bijna, and Tori Fatehpur.[2]"
"The state was located on the eastern part of Jhansi Province, bounded by the British United Provinces of Agra and Oudh on all sides except on the east where it shared a border with the states of Bijna and Tori Fatehpur. In 1823 Diwan Budh Singh was granted a sanad by the British authorities. About a century later the Diwan of Dhurwai was one of the original constituents of the Chamber of Princes, an institution established in 1920.[3][4] After Indian independence, on 1 January 1950, Dhurwai acceded to the Indian Union and was merged into the Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh with the other Hasht-Bhaiya Jagirs."
The rulers of Dhurwai were from the Bundela dynasty of Rajputs. They were titled 'Diwan'.[5]
Diwans
.... - .... Prithvi Raj c.1823 Budh Singh 18.. - 1851 Nahar Singh 14 Jan 1851 - Nov 1910 Ranjor Singh (b. c.1833 - d. 1910) 1910 - 1947? Jugal Prasad Singh
"Tori Fatehpur (Hindi: टोडी फतेहपुर or टोडी फ़तेहपुर), also known as Tori, was a princely state in India during the British Raj. It was one of the Hasht-Bhaiya Jagirs, under the Bundelkhand Agency of British India.[1] Today it is part of Jhansi District in the state of Uttar Pradesh."
"Tori Fatehpur State was founded in the Bundelkhand region in 1812 by a descendant of the royal family of Orchha Diwan Rai Singh of Baragaon near Jhansi. He had eight sons who were granted Jagirs, including Dhurwai, Bijna, and Tori Fatehpur.[2]"
"Tori Fatehpur is on a hill near Gursarai, about 100 km from Jhansi. The fort on the hill is more than 300 years old.[3] After Indian independence, on 1 January 1950, Tori Fatehpur acceded to the Indian Union and was merged into the Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh."
Rulers
"The rulers of Tori Fatehpur were from the Bundela dynasty of Rajputs. They were titled Diwan Saheb. Diwan Saheb Brijendra Singh Ju Deo, born on 11 May 1928, was the last ruling monarch.[4]"
"Jigni State was a princely state of the Bundelkhand Agency of the British Raj. It was a small Sanad state of about 82.87 km2 with a population of 4,297 inhabitants in 1901. The state was surrounded by the Hamirpur and Jhansi districts of the United Provinces."
"Its capital was at Jigni, also known as Jigini.[1] It is a small town —1,770 inhabitants in 1901— located near the confluence of the Dhasan and the Betwa River[2] in present-day Rath tehsil of Hamirpur district, Uttar Pradesh."
"Jigni State was founded as a jagir in 1730 by Rao Padam Singh, a Rajput of the Bundela clan. He was a son of Chhatrasal, the founder of Panna State. Originally the jagir had been larger, but its size was much reduced during the Maratha invasion in the last half of the eighteenth century.[2]"
"Jigni became a British protectorate in 1810 under the rule of Pirthi Singh.[3] Rao Bhupendra Vijai Singh, the last ruler of Jigni State signed the instrument of accession to India in 1947, the state becoming part of the Indian Union on 1 January 1950.[4]"
The ruling family were members of the Bundela clan of Rajputs.[4] The rulers used the title of Rao.[3]
Title Rao
1730 - 1790 Padam Singh (d. 1790) 1790 - 1806 Lakshman Singh I 1806 - 1830 Pirthi Singh (d. 1830) 1830 - 1870 Bhopal Singh (b. 1830 - d. 1870) 1870 - 1892 Lakshman Singh II (b. 1860 - d. 1892) 1892 - 1925 Bhanu Pratap Singh (b. 1878 - d. 1925) 1925 - 1934 Arimardan Singh (b. 1903 - d. 1941) 1934 - 15 Aug 1947 Bhupendra Vijai Singh
"Sarila (Hindi सरीला) is a town, a formerly Rajput princely state and a nagar panchayat in Hamirpur district in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh."
Sarila is located at 25°46′N 79°41′E﻿ / ﻿25.77°N 79.68°E﻿ / 25.77; 79.68.[1] It has an average elevation of 129 metres (423 feet). It is situated on Rath-Jalapur Road 0r MDR-41B it is 28 km from Rath.
"As of 2001[update] India census,[2] Sarila had a population of 17,858. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Sarila has an average literacy rate of 49%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 64%, and female literacy is 33%. In Sarila, 17% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Maharaja Chattarsal of the Bundela clan of Rajputs conquered the area now known as Bundelkhand from the Mughals in the 17th century. One of his grandsons, Raja Pahar Singh of Jaitpur, received Sarila, built Sarila Fortress and in 1755 founded the Hindu princely state covering 91 km2, immedetialy using the royal style Raja."
In 1807 Sarila accepted a British protectorate and became a non-salute state under the colonial Bundelkhand Agency.
Ruling Rajas
Historical places
"There are many historical places, princely palace, Hindu temples and mosques located in Sarila."
"Sri Shalleshwar Mandir, located in Jhanda Bazar locality, is the oldest temple in Sarila. Every year on the occasion of Maha Shivratri, a marriage procession of lord Shiva is carried out in the whole town. On this auspicious occasion, a number of Jhakis are displayed. A large crowd gathers around to take part in this Shiv Barat from nearby villages. Kalka Mandir, located on Mamna Road, is the temple of goddess Kali Mata."
External links and Sources
"Beri State was a princely state of the Bundelkhand Agency of the British Raj. It was a small Sanad state of about 82.87 km2 with a population of 4,297 inhabitants in 1901. Its capital was at Beri, a small town —2,387 inhabitants in 1901— located by the Betwa River in modern Hamirpur district of Uttar Pradesh, about 30 km from Hamirpur town."
"Beri State was founded in the mid eighteenth century by Diwan Acharju (Achharaj) Singh, a jagirdar who was the son of Diwan Mahma Rai of Karaiha in Gwalior State and who migrated to Sandi in Jalaun district in the last half of the 18th century.[1]"
"Beri became a British protectorate in 1809 under the rule of Rao Jugal Prasad.[2] Raja Yadvendra Singh, the last ruler of Beri State signed the instrument of accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1950.[3]"
The ruling family were members of the Bundela clan of the Ponwar line of Rajputs.[3] The rulers used the title of Diwan and only after 1945 the last ruler adopted the title Raja.[2]
Title Diwan
c.1750 Acharju Singh 17.. - c.1780 Khuman Singh (d. c.1780)
Title Rao
c.1780 - 1814 Jugal Prasad (d. 1814) 1814 - 1857 Phairan Singh (d. 1857) 1857 - 1862 Vishvanath Singh (d. 1862) 18 Mar 1862 - 1892 Vijay Singh (b. 1848 - d. 1892) 1892 - 1904 Raghuraj Singh (b. 18.. - d. 1904) 8 Jun 1904 - 1945 Lokendra Singh (b. 1891 - d. 19..) 8 Jun 1904 - 1915 .... -Regent
1945 - 1947 Yadvendra Singh (b. 1918 - d. 1984)
"Alirajpur State was formerly a princely state of India, administratively under the Bhopawar Agency subdivision of the Central India Agency. The state covered an area of 2165 square kilometres, with a population of 50,185 in 1901 and its capital at Alirajpur.[1]"
"The principality was founded in 1437 by Anand Deo, a Rajput of the Rathore, starting the Deo/Singh dynasty.[2][3]　The last ruler of Ali Rajpur was Surendra Singh, who subsequently served as the Ambassador of India to Spain in the 1980s.[4]　After Indian independence in 1947, Alirajpur acceded to the Union of India, and the principality was incorporated into the new state of Madhya Bharat, which subsequently became Madhya Pradesh state on November 1, 1956."
The state flag consisted of 12 red and white horizontal stripes. The Raja had a personal flag with five stripes of different colors.[5]
The rulers of the state were Hindu and were styled Raja from 1911 onwards. They were entitled to an 11-gun salute. they were:[3]
Jobat State[1] was a princely state in India during the British Raj. It was placed administratively under the Bhopawar Agency subdivision of the Central India Agency. The state covered an area of 339 square kilometres and had a population of 9.443 in 1901.
"The principality was founded in the 15th century by a scion of the Alirajpur State ruling family belonging to the Rathore dynasty of Rajputs.[2] After Indian independence in 1948, the rulers of Jobat acceded to the Union of Indiaon 15 June 1948.[3] The principality was incorporated into the new state of Madhya Bharat, which subsequently became Madhya Pradesh state on November 1, 1956."
"Jobat State's Hindu rulers were styled 'Rana', and the succession was in the female line.[4]"
... - 18.. Sabal Singh 1864 - 1874 Ranjit Singh 1874 - 1897 Sarup Singh 1897 - Mar 1916 Indrajit Singh 18 Jun 1917 - 15 Aug 1947 Bhim Singh (b. 1915)
Bhil girls in Jhabua.
"Jhabua State was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. It had its capital in Jhabua town. Most of the territory of the princely state was inhabited by the Bhil people, who constituted a majority of the population. Umarkot was a thikana or vassal state of Jhabua.[1]"
"Rao Bhirji, fifth son of Rao Jodha of Marwar, was the earliest known ancestor of the ruling family. The state of Jhabua was founded by his descendant, Kunwar Kesho Das or Kishan Das, in 1584. He was granted the title of Raja by Mughal Emperor Jahangir of Delhi as a reward for a successful campaign in Bengal, and for punishing the Bhil Chiefs of Jhabua, who had murdered an Imperial Viceroy of Gujarat. Its rulers were Rajputs of the Rathore dynasty.[2]"
"During British rule the state was under the Bhopawar Agency of the Central India Agency and in 1927 it became part of the Malwa Agency. After India's independence in 1947, Jhabua's last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 15 June 1948, and Jhabua became part of the newly created Madhya Bharat state, which in 1956 was merged into Madhya Pradesh.[3]"
Rulers
"The rulers of Jhabua were titled ""Raja"". They were granted a hereditary salute of 11 guns by the British.[4]"
1584 - 1607 Kesho Das 1607 - 1610 Karan Singh 1610 - 1677 Man Singh 1677 - 1723 Kushal Singh 1723 - 1727 Anup Singh 1727 - 1758 Sheo Singh (d. 1758) 1758 - 1770 Bahadur Singh 1770 - 1821 Bhim Singh (d. 1829) 1821 - 1832 Pratap Singh (d. 1832) 1832 - 1840 Ratan Singh (d. 1840) Nov 1841 - 1895 Gopal Singh (b. 1841 - d. 1895) 26 Apr 1895 - 1942 Udai Singh (b. 1875 - d. af.1945) 1942 - 15 Aug 1947 Dhalip Singh (b. 1905 - d. 1965)
"Kesri Singh, ruler of Piploda State from 1888 to 1919"
"Piploda State was a princely state in India at the time of the British Raj. It belonged to the Malwa Agency, part of the Central India Agency. The state had an area of 155 km²."
"Piploda was established in 1547 by Rawat Sawalsinghji, a son of the Rawat of Mandawal, as a feudatory principality of Jaora State. In 1924 Piploda became a separate state. The last ruler acceded to the Government of India on 15 June 1948, and Piploda became part of Ratlam District of Madhya Bharat state.[1]"
The rulers of Piploda State were Rajputs of the Dodia clan.[2]
Thakurs
.... - .... Sadal Singh 1820 - 18.. Prithvi Singh 18.. - 18.. Umed Sigh 18.. - 12 Nov 1863 Onkar Singh (d. 1863)
Maharawat
30 Nov 1863 - 26 Oct 1888 Dulai Singh (b. 1852 - d. 1888)
Raos
8 Nov 1888 - 4 Nov 1919 Kesri Singh (b. 1872 - d. 1919) 5 Nov 1919 - 1936 Mangal Singh (b. 1893 - d. 1936) 1936 - 15 Jun 1948 Raghuraj Singh
Piploda State
A Rajput ruler of Rajgarh
"Rajgarh State (Hindi Name: राजगढ़) was a Rajput princely state in India, named after its capital Rajgarh, Madhya Pradesh. It was part of the colonial Bhopal Agency of the Central India Agency during the British Raj."
"Rajgarh had an area of 2,492 Square Kilometers (940 sq. miles) and a population of 88,376 in 1901. Estimated revenue, 33,000 rupees (1911); tribute (to Sindhia of Gwalior) 3,640. The state revenue reached 450,000, the princely privy purse later 140,000 rupees. Grain and opium were the principal articles of trade."
"There was a predecessor state known as Umatwara, whose chief received the princely title of Rawat (equivalent to Raja) in 1448."
"In 1681 the state was divided into Rajgarh and Narsinghgarh State between the two sons of the Rawat Chhatar Singh, Rawat Mohan Singh and Rawat Parasramji. The daughter Mrinalini fled to the Himalayas and named her new seat (in present Himachal Pradesh?) Rajgarh as well."
Rawats
Nawab
Rawats
External links and Sources
"Narsinghgarh fort, the official Residence of the rulers of the state until Raja Bhanu Prakash Singhji shifted to the Bhanu Niwas Palace in the town in 1962"
"Narsinghgarh State[1] is a former princely state of the British Raj in India. It formed an enclave within Rajgarh State and was placed administratively under the Bhopal Agency subdivision of the Central India Agency. The state covered an area of 1920 km² and had a population of 38,052 in 1901."
"The principality was founded in 1681 by a Hindu dynasty whose rulers belonged to the Kshatriya - Parmar clan of Rajputs and claimed descent from Umat, son of Raja Bhoj. The estate was earlier part of Rajgarh State, whose rulers also share same ancestry and from which it was carved as a new estate.[2] The state was a feudatory Jagir to the Holkar rulers of Indore State, but in 1872 Narsinghgarh estate recognized as a state.[3]"
"After Indian independence in 1947, the rulers of Narsingarh acceded to the Union of India, and the principality was incorporated into the new state of Madhya Bharat in 1948, which subsequently became Madhya Pradesh state on 1 November, 1956."
"The rulers of Narsinghgarh State were styled 'Raja', and were entitled to an 11-gun salute.[4]"
Rajas
"Sailana State was a princely state in India during the British Raj[1] with an area of 769 km². It belonged to the Malwa Agency, part of Central India Agency. Sailana state was so intermingled with the state of Ratlam that it was impossible to show it on map, but It consisted of roughly one-third of Ratlam State apart from its lands in Raoti. The flag was a red triangle."
"Sailana State was founded by Jai Singh, great-grandson of Ratan Singh, founder of Ratlam State in 1736. Jai singh took revenge against his uncle for the murder of his father, he killed him in a pitched battle at sagode and secured Ratlam for his elder brother. The two brothers then split the state between themselves. Jai singh's capital was initially at Raoti. He built Sailana city as his new capital in 1736. He fought 22 battles in his lifetime, turning Sailana into an independent state.[1] On 5 January 1819 Shailana State became a British protectorate. Its last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 15 June 1948.[2]"
The rulers of Sailana State were Rathore Rajputs.
"Painting of Padam Singh, the Raja of Ratlam (1773 - 1800)"
"Sajjan Singh, the Maharaja of Ratlam, riding with Lt. Gen. Rimington and Sir Partab Singh. Linghem, France, 28 July 1915"
"Ratlam State[1] was a princely state in India, part of the Malwa Agency of Central India during the British Raj."
"The state's capital was Ratlam town in modern Ratlam district of Madhya Pradesh. Ratlam was originally a huge state, but the then ruler Ratan Singh opposed Auranzeb in the Battle of Dharmatpur and was killed after a brave fight. The state was then reduced and the title of Maharaja was eventually stripped away; the title was later restored by the British during Maharaja Sajjan Singh's rule. On 5 January 1819 Ratlam State became a British protectorate.[2]"
"The state was founded in 1652. The first Ruler was Maharaja Ratan Singh who married 12 wives, among them Maharani Sukhroopde Kanwar Shekhawat Ji Sahiba, daughter of Kunwar Purshottam Das of Jhajhar (Shekhawati) in Rajasthan. She committed sati in 1658.still shree ji maharaj natwar singh of ratlam is belonging to his family and living in jaipur. state had an area of 1795 km2, which was closely interlaced with the territory of the princely State of Sailana. In 1901, the state had a population of 83,773; the town of Ratlam had a population of 36,321. The state enjoyed an estimated revenue of Rs.34,000 and paid a tribute of Rs.2,850. The town was a junction on the Rajputana-Malwa Railway, and was an important trade centre, especially of opium."
"Ratlam was initially held by its chiefs in vassalage to the Sindhia rulers of Gwalior State, but on 5 January 1819 it became a British protectorate, following which an arrangement was made by which the Sindhia engaged never to send any troops into the country or to interfere with the internal administration. In 1861 the tribute was assigned to the British government in part as payment of the Gwalior contingent."
The state's last ruler signed the instrument of accession to the Indian Union on 15 June 1948.
"For a long period the Ratlam region was under rule of the Rathors. The rulers belonged to the Suryavanshi Rathore line to which the Maharajas of Jodhpur State, Bikaner State and Kishangarh State also belonged."
"Lunavada State, also known as Lunawada State, was a princely state in India during the time of the British Raj. Its last ruler acceded to the Union of India on 10 June 1948."
"According to tradition the predecessor state was established in 1225 by descendants of Sidhraj, Raja of Anhilwara Patan, as the state of Virpur. In 1434, Rana Bhimsinghji moved the capital to Lunavada on the other side of the Mahi river. Before the town was established, the area was controlled by the princely state of Santrampur, ruled by Puwar Rajputs."
"In 1826 Lunavada State became a British protectorate and was a second class state in the Rewa Kantha Agency. The capital was Lunavada town, said to have been founded in 1434. The 1901 census records that the population had a decrease of 28% in the previous decade, due to famine.[2]"
The state was ruled by Rajputs belonging to the Solanki dynasty. One important ruler was Wakhat Singhhji (1867–1919).[3] The rulers had the title 'Rana' and were accorded a status of 9-gun salute by the British authorities.[4]
Ranas
Lunavada State
"The Chhota Udaipur State or 'Princely State of Chhota Udaipur', (Gujarati: છોટાઉદેપુર; Hindi: छोटा उदैपुर)[1] was a princely state with its capital in Chhota Udaipur during the era of British India. The last ruler of Chhota Udaipur State signed the accession to join the Indian Union in 1948. Chhota Udepur shares a history with Devgadh Baria and Rajpipla as one of the three princely states of eastern Gujarat.[2]"
"The erstwhile Princely State of Chhota Udaipur was founded in 1743 by Rawal Udeysinhji, a descendant of Patai Rawal of Champaner. The rulers of Chhota Udaipur were Rajputs of the Chauhan dynasty and were entitled to a 9 gun salute.[3]"
Rulers (title Maharawal)
Flag of the Maharana of Danta
"The Danta State or Princely State of Danta[1] was a princely state in India belonging to the Mahi Kantha Agency of the Bombay Presidency during the era of the British Raj. Its capital was in Danta, Banaskantha, now in Gujarat."
"The Danta State was founded in 1068. The state was ruled by the Hindu Barad (Parmar) dynasty of Danta and Sudasana, and the head of the erstwhile ruling family of Danta is regarded as the head of the Paramara clan of Rajputs."
"The Parmars made Chandravati their capital following the Arab conquest of 1200 AD. After the battle against Allauddin Khilji, they migrated to Tarsang. From there they moved to Danta three hundred and eighty years ago. Danta's last ruler signed the accession to join the Indian Union on 6 November 1948.[2]"
Sir Bhavanisinhji on Danta State revenue stamp
Cambay State in The Imperial Gazetteer of India
"Mu´min Khan, Nawab of Cambay."
Cambay or Kambay was a princely state during the British Raj. The town of Khambat (Cambay) in present-day Gujarat was its capital. The state was bounded in the north by the Kaira district and in the south by the Gulf of Cambay.
"Cambay was founded as a state in 1730 by the penultimate Nawab of the Mughal Empire, Mirza Ja‘far Mu’min Khan I, the last of the Mughal governors of Gujarat, at the time of the dismemberment of Mughal rule in India. In 1742 Mirza Ja‘far Mu’min Khan I defeated his brother-in-law Nizam Khan, governor of Khambhat, and established himself in his place."
"In 1780 Cambay was taken by the British Army, led by General Goddard Richards, but it was restored to the Marathas in 1783. Finally it was ceded to the British by the Peshwa after the Treaty of Bassein in 1803.[1] Cambay became a British protectorate in 1817. The state was provided with a railway in 1901.[2] Cambay's last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 10 June 1948.[3]"
Cambay State was ruled by the Najm-i-Sani Shia'[citation needed] Muslim dynasty. The rulers of the state bore the title of 'Nawab' and had the privilege of an 11-gun salute.[4]
Nawabs
This is a list of ports and harbours of the Indian Ocean.
Bunbury Port
Fremantle Port
Chittagong port
"Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Navi Mumbai"
"Mundra Port, Gujarat"
"Visakhapatnam Port, Andhra Pradesh"
"Kochi Port, Kerala"
"Chennai port, Tamil Nadu"
"Port Louis, Mauritius"
"The world's busiest ports are commonly ranked by cargo tonnage and by volume of container shipment measured in TEUs. Since the 2000s, the Port of Shanghai has surpassed the Port of Singapore and the Port of Hong Kong to become the world's busiest port by both measures.[1][2][3]"
Busiest cargo ports
Yangshan Port of Shanghai
Keppel Container Terminal in Singapore
Tsuen Wan port of Hong Kong
"Port of Shanghai, China World's busiest container port since 2010[3][4] Port of Singapore, Singapore World's busiest transshipment port[5]"
"According to authorities of Zhejiang Province Transportation, the Port of Ningbo-Zhoushan surpassed Shanghai in one of the measures to become the world's busiest port by cargo tonnage.[6] In 2012 Shanghai regained the highest volume by cargo tonnage.[7]"
Busiest passenger ports
"Port of Miami, United States World's busiest cruise port.[8] Port of Piraeus, Greece World's busiest passenger port.[9]"
Scientific analysis
"A study led by Bernd Blasius of the University of Oldenburg analyzed itineraries from 16,693 cargo ships for the entire year of 2009. They conducted their investigation using data from the Automatic Identification System and Lloyd's Register Fairplay by means of VHF receivers and GPS."
The study concluded Panama Canal to be the busiest in 2009. The Suez Canal came in second and Shanghai third.[10]
World's busiest port
"The Minister of Home Affairs (or simply, the Home Minister) is the head of the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Government of India. One of the senior-most offices in the Union Cabinet, the chief responsibility of the Home Minister is the maintenance of India's internal security; the country's large police force comes under his ambit. Occasionally, he is assisted by the Minister of State of Home Affairs and the lower-ranked Deputy Minister of Home Affairs."
"Ever since the time of independent India's first Home Minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the office has been seen as second in seniority only to the Prime Minister in the Union Cabinet. Like Patel, several Home Ministers have since held the additional portfolio of Deputy Prime Minister."
List of Home Ministers
№ Name Portrait Term of office Political party (Alliance) Prime Minister 1 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 2 September 1946 15 December 1950 Indian National Congress Jawaharlal Nehru 2 C. Rajagopalachari 26 December 1950 25 October 1951 3 Kailash Nath Katju 1951 1955 4 Govind Ballabh Pant 10 January 1955 7 March 1961 5 Lal Bahadur Shastri 4 April 1961 29 August 1963 6 Gulzarilal Nanda 29 August 1963 14 November 1966 Jawaharlal Nehru Lal Bahadur Shastri Indira Gandhi 7 Yashwantrao Chavan 14 November 1966 27 June 1970 Indira Gandhi 8 Indira Gandhi 27 June 1970 4 February 1973 9 Uma Shankar Dikshit 4 February 1973 1974 10 Kasu Brahmananda Reddy 1974 24 March 1977 11 Charan Singh 24 March 1977 1 July 1978 Janata Party Morarji Desai 12 Morarji Desai 1 July 1978 28 July 1979 (7) Yashwantrao Chavan 28 July 1979 14 January 1980 Janata Party (Secular) Charan Singh 13 Giani Zail Singh 14 January 1980 22 June 1982 Indian National Congress Indira Gandhi 14 R. Venkataraman 22 June 1982 2 September 1982 15 Prakash Chandra Sethi 2 September 1982 19 July 1984 16 P. V. Narasimha Rao 19 July 1984 31 December 1984 Indira Gandhi Rajiv Gandhi 17 Shankarrao Chavan 31 December 1984 12 March 1986 Rajiv Gandhi (16) P. V. Narasimha Rao 12 March 1986 12 May 1986 17 Sardar Buta Singh 12 May 1986 2 December 1989 18 Mufti Mohammad Sayeed 1989 10 November 1990 Janata Dal (National Front) V. P. Singh 19 Chandra Shekhar 10 November 1990 21 June 1991 Samajwadi Janata Party (National Front) Himself 20 Shankarrao Chavan 21 June 1991 16 May 1996 Indian National Congress P. V. Narasimha Rao 21 Murli Manohar Joshi 16 May 1996 1 June 1996 Bharatiya Janata Party Atal Bihari Vajpayee 22 H.D. Deve Gowda 1 June 1996 29 June 1996 Janata Dal (United Front) Himself 23 Indrajit Gupta 29 June 1996 19 March 1998 Communist Party of India (United Front) H. D. Deve Gowda I. K. Gujral 24 L. K. Advani 19 March 1998 22 May 2004 Bharatiya Janata Party (National Democratic Alliance) Atal Bihari Vajpayee 25 Shivraj Patil 22 May 2004 30 November 2008 Indian National Congress (United Progressive Alliance) Manmohan Singh 26 P. Chidambaram 30 November 2008 31 July 2012 27 Sushilkumar Shinde 31 July 2012 26 May 2014 28 Rajnath Singh 26 May 2014 Incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (National Democratic Alliance) Narendra Modi
"Jaswan was a precolonial Indian state centred at Rajpura, in modern-day Himachal Pradesh. It was founded in 1170 by Raja Purab Chand, a scion of the ancient royal family of Kangra.[1]"
Early history
"According to legend Jaswan state was founded in 1170 by Raja Purab Chand from the Kangra Royal Family, a Rajput of the Katoch dynasty.[2]"
British Raj
"In 1815, the Sikh maharaja Ranjit Singh ordered all his available forces to assemble at Sialkot. The raja of Jaswan, Ummed Singh (1800–1849), failed to obey the summons and was fined a sum beyond his means. The raja was forced to relinquish his state to the Sikh emperor, and accepted a jagir of 21 villages and 12,000 Rs per annum.[1] In 1848, he joined the Sikh in an unsuccessful revolt against the British. His palaces were plundered and razed to the ground, and his territory annexed. He was stripped of his title and exiled to Almora, where he died a year later.[1][3] In 1877, the jagir in Jaswan, along with several other former properties in Rajpura and Amb, was restored to Ummed's grandson Ran Singh (b. 1833), who also later acquired the jagir of Ramkot in Jammu upon marriage to a granddaughter of Maharaja Gulab Singh.[1]"
"The rulers of Jaswan State bore the title 'Raja'.[4] Founded in 1170 by Raja Purab Chand, a scion of the Kangra Royal Family. Rulers were...."
Jaswan
Raja Bijai Chand with Rajput chiefs.
"Dan Chand, prince of Bilaspur. Last quarter of the 18th century."
"Bilaspur State or Kahlur was a princely state in the Punjab Province during the era of British India, ruled by a Hindu Rajput dynasty."
"The state was initially known as Kahlur and was later renamed Bilaspur.[1] It covered an area of 1173 km², and had a population of 100,994 according to the 1931 Census of India. The last ruler of Bilaspur State signed the accession to join the Indian Union on 12 October 1948.[2]"
"Bilaspur State remained Bilaspur Province in independent India until 1950 when the province was briefly renamed ""Bilaspur State"" before it was merged with Himachal Pradesh state as a district in 1954.[3]"
"According to local myths compiled during the reign of Raja Hira Chand the predecessor state was founded around 697 by Bir Chand.[4] After Kahal Chand had built Kahlur Fort the state was named after it. Initially the capital of the state was at a place named Jhandbari —now in Hoshiarpur district— and then it was transferred to Kahlur Fort, but was later moved permanently to Bilaspur[1] by Dip Chand, the 32nd Raja of Kahlur (1653 - 1665).[2] Since the 18th century the rulers of Bilaspur State patronised artists of the Kangra painting style.[5]"
"Bilaspur State came under British protection in 1815 under Raja Mahan Chand and became one of the Simla Hill States.[6] Tikka Anand Chand was the last ruler of the princely state and Pandit Sant Ram was the last Home Minister. As Bilaspur acceded to India on 12 October 1948, Pandit Sant Ram administered the state's accession ensuring that Bilaspur retained an independent identity as a separate province and as a part C state while the territory of the princely state was politically integrated into the Indian Union. From 26 January 1950 Bilaspur was administered by the Government of India as a separate C-Class state named Bilaspur State which in 1954 was incorporated into the State of Himachal Pradesh as a province.[3]"
Rajas
The Mian Families
"Most of the Rajputs in Bilaspur are Chandelas, that is they belong to different branches of the ruling family. These families are numerous, and all enjoyed jagir pensions from state amounting in aggregate to Rs. 40,000 a year in 1933. They are called 'the Mian families', and the chief names are:"
Ajmerchandia Kaliyanchandia Tarachandia Sultanchandia.[7]
"The Punjab States Agency was a political office of the British Indian Empire. The agency was created in the 1930s, on the model of the Central India Agency and Rajputana Agency, and dealt with forty princely states in northwest India formerly dealt with by the British province of the Punjab.[1] [2]"
"After 1947, most of the states chose to accede to the Union of India, the rest to the Dominion of Pakistan."
"The princely states had come under British suzerainty after the Anglo-Nepalese War of 1814-16 became the Punjab Native States and the Simla Hill States. They later came under the authority of the British province of Punjab, with the exception of Tehri Garhwal State, which had been under the authority of the United Provinces.[3]"
"The Punjab States Agency was established in 1933 out of the previous Punjab Native States, which had been under the Lieutenant Governor of Punjab Province, and the Simla Hill States, under the Deputy Commissioner of Simla district.[4] The agency was created under the direct authority of the Governor General of India with its headquarters in Shimla.[5]"
"After Indian Independence in 1947, the states acceded to the Government of India, most of the states became the new state of Himachal Pradesh, with Tehri Garhwal State becoming part of Uttar Pradesh. In 2000, the northern portion of Uttar Pradesh, including the former state of Tehri-Garhwal, became the new state of Uttarakhand."
Princely states
Punjab States Agency
"Salute states, by precedence :"
"Non-salute states, alphabetically :"
Mamdot Pataudi
The Hill States of India were princely states lying in the northern border regions of the British Indian Empire.
"During the Raj period, two groups of princely states in direct relations with the Province of British Punjab became part of the British Indian Empire later than most of the former Mughal Empire, in the context of two wars and an uprising."
Simla Hills
Map of some states 1911
"28 princely states (including feudatory princes and zaildars) in the promontories of the western Himalaya were named after Shimla as the Simla Hill States.[1] These states were ruled mainly by Hindu Rajputs.[2][3] Their inhabitants were mainly Hindu with a few Buddhists; the local languages were Hindi, Punjabi, Urdu and various Pahari dialects."
"Three quarters of the about 4,800 square miles (12,000 km2), on both sides of the Sutlej river, was the territory of the Raja (earlier Rana) of Bashahr. The direct tributaries of Bashahr were:"
"the Rana of Balsan the Thakur of Beja the Rana of Bhaji / Bhajji a prince of Bhagat the Raja of Bilaspur (formerly Kahlur = Kehloor), entitled to an 11-guns salute the Rana of Darkoti(i) = Darkoti the Rana (Shri) of Dhami the Raja Rana (ex Rana) of Jubbal. The Jubbal state had two tributaries: the Thakur (sahib) of Dhadi, initially tributary to Tharoch, then to Bashahr and finally in 1896 to Jubbal. (title?) Rawin = Rawingarh the Raja (formerly Rana) of Keonthal. Furthermore, the feudal pyramid included five Keonthal zaildars (jagirdars collecting a special tax): a jagirdar Gundh the Rana Sahib of Koti (since 1815) a jagirdar Madhan = Kiari the Thakur saheb (also styled Rana) of Ratesh (popularly known as Kot, 'fortress') the Rana of Theog the Thakur of Kunihar the Rana of Kuthar the Thakur of Mahlog the Rana of Mangal the Raja of Nalagarh the Thakur (or Rai Mian?) of Sangri the Thakur (Originally titled Rana up to the occupation by the Gurkhas, and Thakurs from 1815 to 1929) of Tharhoch = Tiroch"
The princely states of the Simla Hills all ultimately became part of the modern Indian state of Himachal Pradesh.
States of the Punjab Hills
"HH the Raja (saheb) of Chamba = Chamba, entitled to an 11 gun salute HH the Raja of Siba, no salute, as Siba was not fully part of the British Indian Empire, only Siba Jagir (Jagir of Mian Devi Singh) up to Kotla. The present-day titular Sibaia Raja is Raja Dr. Ashok K. Thakur. HH the Raja of Mandi, entitled to an 11 gun salute HH the Raja of Suket, entitled to an 11 gun salute HH the Maharaja (until 1913 Raja) of Tehri Garhwal State (in Uttar Pradesh), entitled to an 11 gun salute etc."
Sources and references
"Bashahr, also spelt as 'Bushahr' and 'Bussahir', was a princely state in India during the British Raj. It was located in the hilly western Himalaya promontory in the northern part of colonial Punjab."
"The territory of this former state is now part of Kinnaur and Shimla district of the Indian republic's state of Himachal Pradesh. The erstwhile Bashahr state was traversed by the Sutlej river. It had an area of 8,907 km²."
"The erstwhile Bashahr state was occupied by a Gorkha king from central Nepal from 1803 to 1815. Ranjit Singh, the ruler of the Sikh state in the Punjab, intervened in 1809 and drove the Nepalese army east of the Satluj river. A rivalry between Nepal and the British East India Company over the annexation of minor states bordering Nepal eventually led to the Anglo-Nepalese War (1815–16) or the Gurkha War. Both parties eventually signed the Treaty of Sugauli, following which the Gurkhas were expelled from Kamru, the capital of Bashahr."
"In 1898, Bashahr state was taken over by the British administration, although the Râja remained nominally in charge. After British occupation, the Bashahr state was by far the largest of the 28 Simla Hills States. There was a tax revolt by Bashahr's peasants in 1906."
The ruling princes of Bashahr were styled as Râna before the Nepalese occupation and titled Râja afterwards.[1]
Rampur Bushahr is a city and a municipal council in Shimla district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is 130 km from Shimla well connected with National Highway which passes through Narkanda (attitude 2708m).
Sutlej Valley from Rampur ca. 1857
"The principality of Bashahr (also known as Bashahar, Bushahar, Bushahr) was once among the largest of the twenty-eight Shimla Hill States under the administration of the British Raj keen to invest on regional and transcontinental trade and exploit Himalayan resources. It bordered on the north with Spiti, on the east with Tibet, on the south with Garhwal, and on the west with Jubbal, Kotkhai, Kumharsain, Kotgarh, and Kullu. Caught in the machinations of the British imperial enterprise, it was subjected to political-cum-economic vicissitudes, acceding to the Indian Union in 1947. On 8 March 1948, along with twenty other princely hill States of Punjab and Shimla, Bashahr signed an agreement which resulted in its inclusion in the Indian State of Himachal Pradesh."
"Rampur, a small township situated at 1,005 meters on the left bank of the Sutlej, served as Bushahar’s winter capital. Being well connected with major trading routes that joined Indian markets with Central Asia and Tibet, it buzzed with mercantile activity, especially in November during the Lavi fair, the largest trading event in the north Himalayas attracting traders from Kashmir, Ladakh, Yarkand, and the Indian mainland. Concerning the origins of the Rampuri fair, the Census of India (1961) reports:"
"Rampur was also located along pilgrimage routes to sacred sites in western Tibet shared by Hindus, Bön and Buddhists alike, i.e., Mount Kailash and Lake Mansarovar. Missionary and pilgrimage activities, intensified by trading possibilities, created the conditions for Tibetan Buddhism to take a firm stronghold in these borderland regions. Twenty-two kilometres from the village of Namgya in upper Kinnaur, laid the Shipki pass which linked caravan routes to and from western Tibet. This treacherous transcontinental passage must have been in use from ancient times, for among the ruined castles reported by Francke at Shipki village, there were no living memories of the origins of mKar gog, the oldest of them built above the village in cyclopean style.Rampur also has Hydro Power Stations namely, Nathpa Jhakri Power Station (1500 MW) and Rampur Hydro Power Station (412 MW) by SJVN Ltd. A second castle, known as Seng ge mkhar, is said to have received its crooked ground plan “through a race round its base executed in opposite directions by a poisonous snake and a scorpion,” and was built, in all probability, during the Ladakhi occupation of mNga’ ris by orders of King Seng ge rnam rgyal (1570–1642) and called after him.[2]It is 30 km from SAINJ."
"Rampur is located at 31°27′N 77°38′E﻿ / ﻿31.45°N 77.63°E﻿ / 31.45; 77.63.[3] It has an average elevation of 1350 metres (4429 feet). It is a very beautiful place situated at the bank of the river Satluj. The city has many popular places like Jhakri, Sarahan Bushahr, Green valley Dhar Gaura, Shraikoti, {Nankhari, Gahan, Hatu Mata temple, cold rainy & snow view hill station} to name a few. The city is also the home to Asia's Largest Hydro Power Project - The Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Power Station built by Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd.(formerly known as Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation) at Jhakri and world's deepest Surge shaft at a Shah (22 km from Rampur). \"
"Rampur, Himachal Pradesh"
"Sarahan is small picturesque village in Himachal Pradesh of India. It is the site of famous Bhimakali Temple, originally known as Bhimadevi Temple (Bhīmā Kālī), dedicated to the mother goddess Bhimakali, presiding deity of the rulers of the former Bushahr State. The temple is situated about 170 kilometres from Shimla and is one of 51 Shakti Peethas. The village is known as the gateway of Kinnaur it being near the old Indo-Tibetan Road.[1] Seven kilometers below (17 km by road) Sarahan is the river Satluj. Sarahan is identified with the Sonitpur mentioned in Puranas.[2] Sarahan Bushahr has been the summer capital of Bushahr kingdom. Rampur Bushahr being the winter capital. The Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Shree Virbhadra Singh is a member of royal family (Son of erstwhile king Padam Singh) and is popularly known as ""Raja Sahab"" at Sarahan. He has been prominent member of Assembly/Parliament since 1962 and has held the post of Chief Minister for record 6 times. His wife Rani Pratibha Devi is also a member of Assembly."
Facilities Available :
"HPTDC Hotel ""Hotel Shrikhand"" with facilities of rooms, villas, restaurant and bar. Contact:+91 1782 274234."
Sarahan Senior Secondary Public School.
Places of Interest:
"The Bhimakali Temple is an iconic structure housing the ""Kuldevi"" (The presiding deity of the dynesty) of Bushahr Kingdom. The Bhimakali Temple is noteworthy in that it contains both Hindu and Vajrayāna Buddhist statues and decorations which reflect the trade through here between India and Tibetan regions through ancient Indo-Tibetan Road. The traces of old Indo-Tibetan road still passes through Shalabag near Sarahan. It also shows Kushan influence in its architecture and possibly some of the images in it are Kushan (c. 1st to 3rd centuries CE).[3]"
"There are two adjacent Identical looking temple buildings,One being old and resurrected and another one being new.The temple is built in Indo- Tibetan style of architecture.Alternate Rows of grooved and interlocked stones and wood provide flexibility and strength to the walls.Thick walls with lower roofs found in typical mountainous region buildings provide warmth during winters. Bushahr kings are believed to be dynastic priests of the temple and used to reside in temple premises before moving to palace some 100 meters from temple. Artistic wood work on the temple is worth appreciating."
"Pheasantry : Jujurana is one of the protected species of birds in the region which is also present state bird of Himachal Pradesh. Pheasantry at Sarahan (500m from temple) caters to breeding of some local species of birds and they can be seen inside cages. Pheasantry remain closed during summer,it being the breeding season. Pheasantry is also a good place for a short uphill trek which may take 1–2 hours and gives good view of two of the prominent peaks the Gushu-Pushu and the Shrikhand Mahadev."
"HPTDC Hotel Shrikhand, Sarahan"
"Sarahan is located at 31°31′N 77°48′E﻿ / ﻿31.52°N 77.80°E﻿ / 31.52; 77.80.[4] It has an average elevation of 2,313 metres (7,589 feet)."
Climate :
The cold climate is suitable for Apple crop and Apples from the region remain in high demand.
"Sarahan is 564 kilometres from New Delhi and 170 kilometres from Shimla. One can travel by train to Kalka or by air to Chandigarh and then travel by road to Sarahan. People also opt for the famous train ride from Kalka to Shimla.Taxis and jeeps can be hired to reach to Sarahan. Bus services are also available from Chandigarh,Shimla,Rampur and Jeori. It takes approximately 6 to 8 hours by road to reach Sarahan from Shimla and 9 to 11 hours from Chandigarh. Road Connectivity gets temporarily hampered during winters due to heavy snowfall at Narkanda and landslides at places like Jhakhri. There is an alternate route via Sainj which bypasses Narkanda, which is used during heavy snowfall. The NH 22 forks at Jeori (153 km from Shimla and 23 km from Rampur Bushahr) towards Sarahan making an uphill U turn. Sarahan is 17 km from Jeori. Buses ply between Sarahan and Jeori at periodic interval. Finding a taxi from Jeori might be difficult. Buses, shared taxi, public carriers are frequent between Rampur and Jeori. Buses heading to Reckongpeo also drops passengers at Jeori, where they need to take another vehicle for Sarahan. There are almost no snowfall on NH22 ahead of Narkanda and up to Jeori in winters. Snow on the roads near Sarahan are promptly cleared by government agencies. The nearest petrol pumps are at Jeori and Rampur."
Notable persons from this town
Virbhadra Singh - Noted Politician Niharika Acharya- TV Reporter/Journalist
"Shri Bhima Kali Temple is a temple at Sarahan in Himachal Pradesh in India, dedicated to the mother goddess Bhimakali, presiding deity of the rulers of former Bushahr (Hindi: बुशहर) State. The temple is situated about 180 km from Shimla and is one of 51 Shakti Peethass. The town Sarahan is known as the gate way of Kinnaur. Down below at a distance of 7 km from Sarahan is the River Satluj. Sarahan is identified with the then Sonitpur mentioned in Puranas.[1]"
Legend about Bhimakali
"According to a legend, the manifestation of the goddess is reported to the Daksha-Yajna incident when the ear of the Sati fell at this place and became a place of worship as a Pitha - Sthan. Presently in the form of a virgin the icon of this eternal goddess is consecrated at the top storey of the new building. Below that storey the goddess as Parvati, the daughter of Himalaya is enshrined as a divine consort of Lord Siva."
"Sarahan was the capital of rulers of former Bushahr State. Bushahr dynasty earlier used to control the state from Kamroo. The capital of state later was shifted to Sonitpur. Later Raja Ram Singh made Rampur as the capital.[1] It is believed that the country of Kinnaur was the Kailash mentioned in Puranas, the abode of Shiva. With its capital at Sonitpur this former princely state was extended up to entire area of Kinnaur where for sometimes Lord Shiva disguised himself as Kirata. Today, the then Sonitpur is known as Sarahan. Banasura, the ardent devotee of Lord Siva, eldest among the one hundred sons of great ablative demon King Bali and the great grandson of Vishnu votary Prahlad, during the Puranic age was the ruler of this princely state."
"The Nathpa Jhakri Dam is a concrete gravity dam on the Satluj River in Himachal Pradesh, India. The primary purpose of the dam is hydroelectric power production and it supplies a 1,500 megawatts (2,000,000 hp) underground power station with water. Before reaching the power station, water is diverted through a 27.4 km (17 mi) headrace tunnel. Construction on the project began in 1993 and it was complete in 2004. The last two of the 250 megawatts (340,000 hp) Francis turbine-generators went online in March 2004. It is owned by SJVN Ltd.[2]"
Scheduling and generation despatch
The scheduling and despatch[clarification needed] of the Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Power plant is done by Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre which is the apex body to ensure the integrated operation of the power system grid in the Northern region and comes under Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO).
"The Daranghati Sanctuary is located in Shimla District, Himachal Pradesh, India. It has undisturbed forest areas. Monal, Tragopan, Koklas and Kalij are the pheasants found here. Some of the common animals found here are Musk deer, Goral and Thar. Forest staff posted at Dofda and Sarahan is there for advice and guidance.[3]"
Visiting
The best way to explore the sanctuary is by reaching the nearest forest chowki in the village Kashapaat. Forest rest house is available.
There's also a PWD rest house on top of the pass or one can stay in the tented accommodation right in front of the rest house.
The Kanwar Sanctuary is located in Parbati valley of Kullu district. R.O. wildlife Kasol provides information and help to visitors. Uphill walk along Garahan Nala from Kasol through dense Deodar and Fir forests is worth. The sanctuary has large population of Himalayan Thar.[1]
Access
Airport:- Bhuntar (10-km from Kullu) Railway:- The closest Railhead is at Jogindernagar (95 km from Kullu) Road:- The sanctuary is well connected by road. Delhi via Mandi:- 530 km Shimla:- 240 km Owner:- Kanwar EpC Jatt
"The Majthal Sanctuary is situated in Solan District and has steep and rugged terrain. The sanctuary is about 10 km on the kacha road Kararaghat (Shimla-Bilaspur Highway) to Kashlog. The sanctuary is said to have a large population of endangered cheer pheasant, and there is also a large goral population. The Himachal Tourism agency recommends winter as a good time to visit the sanctuary.[1][2]"
Majthal Sanctuary
"Hatu peak is located at an elevation of 3400 m/12000 ft above sea level and is the highest summit in Shimla/Narkanda[1] region of Himachal Pradesh, India. The peak is surrounded by dense woods. The area has forests of fir and spruce, with a smattering of maple, aspen and cedar trees."
Hatu Peak lies on the Shimla-Rampur Highway nearly 71 km from Shimla. The roads are in good condition until Narkanda which is nearly 5 km from the peak. From here you can either trek for 5 km or go by bike or car. From there the peak can be accessed by bike or car but the road is difficult to use and only one car can climb at a time.
Hatu Temple
At the top of the peak is a small wooden temple called Hatu temple. According to local belief the famous Hatu Mata temple is the temple of ‘Mandodari’ wife of ‘Ravana’. People come in great number on the first Sunday of Jyeshtha to pay ritual here. Goat sacrifice is still in practice near the temple.There is an ancient stove like formation of rocks nearby the temple. Locals believe that it was used by the Pandavas brothers to cook their food during their Agyaat Vaas.[2]
Tourist House
A small structure has been created which is used seldom by civil authorities.
Accessibility
"The small hill station of Narkanda (at 2708m) is the start for the journey to the top of Hatu Peak. Narkanda is a stop on the regular bus service from Shimla to Rampur. The bus ride will cost around 60-70 rupees and take about 2.5 hours. Alternatively, private car hire is available and will cost approximately 1500 rupees for a slightly shorter trip and the flexibility of using your own time table."
Facilities
Hatu Peak is uninhabited and therefore few facilities are available at the top. There is a tourist lodge by HPTC 1 km below the peak which can be used for general facilities and accommodation.[3]
"The Simbalbara Sanctuary is located in of Sirmour District (Paonta Valley). This area bears dense Sal forests with grassy glades. In the area there is a perennial stream. Simbalbara Forest Rest House is well-connected from Puruwala and provides a beautiful view of the valley. Goral, Sambhar and Chittal are the common animals found here.There are walking trails also in the quiet adjoining forests. Winter is the best season to visit the sanctuary (October–November).[1] Travel and Tourism department of Himachal Pradesh has preserved the sanctuary in its natural form.[2]"
Access
"Nearest airport:- chandigarh (87-km from Nahan) Railway: The nearest railhead is at Ambala cantt. (63-km from Nahan) By road: Nahan is well connected by road, linked to many cities and tourist spots. nearest village: palhori opposite simbalbara"
"The Manali Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh in northern India. The sanctuary starts about 2 km from Manali. It is the catchment of Manalsu khad. A path from Manali log huts and Dhungri temple passes through dense Deodar, Kail, Horse chestnut, Walnut and Maple forests. Musk deer, Monal and Brown bear, Leopard and Snow leopard are some of the common animals seen here. Herds of Ibex are seen migrating in the glacier zone in summers. The area of the sanctuary is about 31.8 square kilometres. The following area was declared as a sanctuary on 26 February 1954, under the Punjab Birds and Wild Animals Protection Act of 1933."
Manali Sanctuary
"Kalesar National Park (Hindi: कलेसर राष्ट्रीय उद्यान) is a protected area in eastern district of Haryana, India, i.e. Yamunanagar 150 km from Chandigarh.[1] It is a popular destination for Leopard and bird-watching.[2] It is home to the red jungle fowl among other birds. It is a sal forest in Shivalik Hills, a name given to the foot-hills of the Himalayas is spread across 11,000 acres (45 km2).[3] The range runs parallel with the Himalayan system from Haridwar on the Ganges to the banks of the Beas, with a length of 200 miles (320 km) and an average width of 10 miles (16 km). The elevation varies from 2000 to 3,500 ft (1,100 m). Geologically speaking the Shivaliks belong to the tertiary deposits of the outer Himalayas and are chiefly composed of low sandstone and conglomerate hills, the solidified and upheaved detritus of the great range in their rear. The intermediate valley lying between the outer hills and the Mussoorie. It was established in 2003."
"The park is located in Haryana, and covers 13,000 acres (53 km2).[4]"
Dak bungalow
"It is an excellent area to visit for birders and those interested in wildlife. It has a 100-year-old colonial dak bungalow. The forest rest house is at a picturesque point commands a sweeping view of the Yamuna river. Surrounded with multi-layered gardens, and as typical of the 'Raj' bungalow architecture, there are high-ceiling rooms, exquisite parquet flooring and teak paneling along walls. A fireplace with a mantelpiece above and antique furniture completes the period setting. Kgm imd"
Hills
"In the distance hills stand silhouetted against the first pinkish-blue light. A dirt road diverts from the highway where a faded billboard announces entry into the reserve forest mainly consisting of Sal trees. The ride is very bumpy. Among the flora is the small sindoor tree — it has dainty flowers, which turn into pods to produce the vermilion sindoor that adorns the tresses of married women."
Dense old forest
"Besides the tall, leafy sal trees that constitute the dense age-old forest belt of the Doon valley, there are other trees like Semul, Amaltas and Bahera. Climbers snake up the tree stems, and the forest floor is littered with fallen leaves and foliage plants. Sculptural anthills dot the landscape. There is a watering hole created by the Forest Department to quench the thirst of wild animals. A number of pebbled dry rivulets, which come alive during the monsoon season. A vast stretch of forest clearing is in sight. It is a man-made clearing and a 'fire line' which helps in the intricate task of containing forest fires, which once if they start off can turn into an inferno."
Medicinal tree plants
"In the jungle, there is a machaan (high observation tower) with a dangerous-looking service ladder. From top the effort is rewarded by a sweeping panorama of the 11000 acres (45 km2) of the great sal forest; criss-crossed by fire lines and meandering rivulets. About 20 km away on the Chuharpur road, is the Ch. Devi Lal Herbal Nature Park, a prestigious, innovative project of the Forests Department, Haryana. The park, spread over 50 acres (200,000 m2) with 61,000 shrubs of herbs and 6100 medicinal tree plants."
Sambar deer
"Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary and Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary are only 3 km aerial distance from each other, both are also only few km away from Kalesar National Park, all of which lie in the Shivalik hills of Haryana. All these three centuries have similar species of wild animal that migrate from century to another.[5]"
Kalesar National Park
Criminal acts
"As for the steps taken to ensure protection of wildlife and environment, the forest staff have been given weapons by the state government to tackle the menace posed by poachers. The state had also set up two special environmental courts in Kurukshetra and Faridabad to deal with crimes related to poaching and illicit felling of trees from the area. Eight watering holes have been dug up across the forest area to ensure that the wildlife does not stray into human habitats on its fringes in search of drinking water. Earthen dams have also been constructed to conserve rainwater for future use of wildlife. There are plans to build a fence around the area in the near future."
Cameras
"The Forests Department, Haryana, with funding provided by the Wildlife Institute of India, installed 80 cameras at 40 locations across the park in December 2014, primarily to monitor the movements of tigers, leopards and other animals in the park, as well as to conduct annual two-month long animal species and animal count survey.[2][4]"
Kalesar National park is on the road from Yamunanagar to Paonta Sahib. There are many local and Haryana Roadways-operated buses that take tourists to the park. Visitors can also hire taxis/cabs to reach the park.
"Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary (Hindi: खौल ही-राइतान वन्यजीव अभयारण्य) is situated in Panchkula district of Haryana State, India. It is 0.5 km away from Panchkula on the Morni Road and its aerial distance from the Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary is only 3 km.[1][2]"
"Forests Department, Haryana of Government of Haryana officially notified this as Wildlife Sanctuary on 10 December 2004.[1]"
"It is spread over an area of 4883 (2226.58 and 2656.38) hectares. In addition, there is 1320 hectares Eco-sensitive zone around the sanctuary.[1][2]"
Asiatic elephant is found at Kalesar
Animals
"Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary and Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary are only 3 km aerial distance from each other, both are also only few km away from Kalesar National Park, all of which lie in the Shivalik hills of Haryana. All these three centuries have similar species of wild animal that migrate from century to another. The wild species include Indian leopard, Asiatic elephant, Chital (spotted deer), Sambar deer, Wild boar, Rhesus macaque, Gray langur, Striped hyena, Indian jackal, Jungle cat, Indian gray mongoose, Indian fox and Indian jackal.[2]"
Nearby attractions
"Kalesar National Park - 15 km from Yamunanagar on Chhachhrauli road, location map, it has elephant, wild boar, sambhar, hare, red junglefowl, porcupine, monkey, chital Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary, Panchkula district, 767.30 hectares, 8 km from Pinjore on Mallah road, 30 km from Chandigarh, Map"
"Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary (Hindi: बीड़ शिकारगाह वन्यजीव अभयारण्य) is situated in Panchkula district of Haryana state, India. It is spread over an area of 767.30 hectares. It also houses Vulture Conservation and Breeding Centre, Pinjore."
"It is 8 km away from Pinjore on Pinjor-Mallah Road.[1] It is 10 km from Kalka, 20 km from Panchkula, 30 km from Chandigarh, 20 km from Morni Hill station. Forests Department, Haryana of Government of Haryana officially notified this as Wildlife Sanctuary 29 May 1987."
Eco-sensitive zone of sanctuary
"In 2009, the Government of India declared it an Eco-sensitive Zone (ESZ), as a result development will not be permitted within a 5-km radius.[2]"
"Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary and Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary are only 3 km aerial distance from each other, both are also only few km away from Kalesar National Park, all of which lie in the Shivalik hills of Haryana. All these three centuries have similar species of wild animal that migrate from century to another. The wild species include Indian leopard, Asiatic elephant, Chital (spotted deer), Sambar deer, Wild boar, Rhesus macaque, Gray langur, Striped hyena, Indian jackal, Jungle cat, Indian gray mongoose, Indian fox and Indian jackal.[3]"
Nearby attractions
"Kalesar National Park - 15 km from Yamunanagar on Chhachhrauli road, location map, it has elephant, wild boar, sambar deer, hare, red junglefowl, porcupine, monkey, chital Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary, Panchkula district, 4883 hectares, 3 aerial km from Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuar near Panchkula on Morni road, 20 km from Chandigarh, Map"
Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary
"Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary (Hindi: सरस्वती वन्य अभ्यारण), also known as Seonsar Forest (Hindi: सोनसर जंगल), is situated in Kaithal district of Haryana State, India. It is spread over an area of 4452.85 hectares.[1]"
"Kalesar National Park, Morni Hills and Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary are respectively first, second and third largest forest in Haryana.[2]"
"It is 10 km away from Pehowa, 40 km from Kurukshetra, 60 km from Kaithal on the Pehowa-Cheeka-Patiala Road, 62 km from Patiala, 66 km from Ambala, 108 km from Chandigarh, 150 km from Hisar, 67 km from Karnal, 200 km from Delhi.[1]"
It is only nearly 30 km from Bir Gurdialpura Wildlife Sanctuary in Patiala district of Punjab.
Saraswati Plantation was notified as Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary on 29 July 1988.[2]
Archaeological remains
"The Tribune reported on 9 April 2016 that Mahant and members of a dera of Nath yogis in the sanctuary found the ancient rectangular bricks from a 15 feet deep structure after an old banyan tree was uprooted.[3] According to Rajendra Singh Rana, curator of Kurukshetra’s Srikrishna Museum, prima facie these bricks and structure appears to be older than 1500 years old as square bricks are associated with 1,500 years old Gupta period (320 CE to 550 CE) and these bricks are likely to be even older from the Kushan (30 CE to 375 CE) period as the Sarasvati river use to flow here.[3]"
There is also a 40 years old Water well made of small lakhauri bricks associated with the Mughal empire era.[3]
Footnotes
"National parks in India are IUCN category II protected areas. India's first national park was established in 1936 as Hailey National Park, now known as Jim Corbett National Park, Uttarakhand. By 1970, India only had five national parks. In 1972, India enacted the Wildlife Protection Act and Project Tiger to safeguard the habitats of conservation reliant species."
"Further federal legislation strengthening protections for wildlife was introduced in the 1980s. As of July 2015, there were 103 national parks encompassing an area of 40,500 km2 (15,600 sq mi), comprising 1.23% of India's total surface area.[1]"
List of national parks.[2]
List of national parks of India
"The Chief Minister of West Bengal is the chief executive of the eastern Indian state of West Bengal. As per the Constitution of India, the governor is a state's de jure head, but de facto executive authority rests with the chief minister. Following elections to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, the state's governor usually invites the party (or coalition) with a majority of seats to form the government. The governor appoints the chief minister, whose council of ministers are collectively responsible to the assembly. Given that he has the confidence of the assembly, the chief minister's term is for five years and is subject to no term limits.[1]"
Chief Ministers of West Bengal
"Writers' Building, an 18th-century Company-era construction in Kolkata, serves as the office of West Bengal's chief Minister."
"The first Chief Minister of West Bengal, Prafulla Chandra Ghosh, at Writers' in 1947"
"The Presidential Standard of India. Between 1968 and 1977, West Bengal came under President's rule on four occasions."
List of Chief Ministers of West Bengal
"With over 23 years in office, Jyoti Basu of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is India's longest-serving chief minister."
"Basu's successor Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, who served for over 10 years"
"The Kaushalya Dam (Hindi: कौशल्या बांध) is an earth-fill embankment dam on the Kaushalya river, which is a tributary of Ghaggar-Hakra River[1] (modern remnant of ancient Sarasvati river), in Pinjore of Haryana state, India. It was constructed between 2008 and 2012 with the primary purpose of water supply.[2]"
"Kaushalya barrage and resulting upstream dam on Kaushalya river are located 21 km from Chandigarh,[3] 12 km from Panchkula city and Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary near Panchkula,[4] 5 km from Pinjore city,[5] and 13 km from Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary near Pinjore."
"The first plan, which never materialised, for a dam on Ghaggar river was first proposed by the British raj in the mid 19th century to provide drinking water to Ambala Cantonment.[6]"
"The proposal was revisited only in the 1960s to construct a dam on Ghaggar river at Gumthala near Chandimandir to provide water to Chandigarh and control floods in Punjab, India, this plan was abandoned in 1999 as it would have submerged over 4,000 acres (1,600 ha) of land resulting in relocation of a large number of people.[2][7]"
Construction
"Kaushalya dam, built by the Government of Haryana at the cost of INR217 crore,[7] is a 700 meters (2,300 ft) long and 34 meters (112 ft) high earth-filled dam.[6]"
Purpose
"The Government of Haryana built this dam for providing 40 cusecs or 25 MGD (million gallons per day) of raw water to Panchkula city,[6] recharge ground water, check flash floods, promote tourism and fisheries in reservoir area.[7]"
Wildlife
It is an important wetland that is home of many endangered migratory birds.[8]
"The Hathni Kund is a concrete barrage located on the Yamuna River in Yamuna Nagar district of Haryana state, India. It was constructed between October 1996 and June 1999 for the purpose of irrigation. It replaced the Tajewala Barrage 3 km (2 mi) downstream which was constructed in 1873 and is now out of service. The barrage diverts water into the Western and Eastern Yamuna Canals. The small reservoir created by the barrage also serves as a wetland for 31 species of waterbird.[1]"
"Plans to replace the Tajewala Barrage had been in the works since the early 1970s but an agreement between the governments of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh (which share the water it diverts) was not made until July 1994.[2] Although the barrage was completed in late 1999, it was not operational until March 2002 because of work delays.[3] The barrage is 360 m (1,181 ft) long and its spillway is composed of ten main floodgates along with five undersluices on its right side and three on its left. The maximum discharge of the barrage is 28,200 m3/s (995,874 cu ft/s) (1 in 500 year flood).[4]"
"Pathrala Barrage (Hindi: पथराला बांध) is a barrage across the Somb river, located in Yamuna Nagar District, in the state of Haryana, India.[1]"
"The Western Yamuna Canal, built in 1335 CE by Firuz Shah Tughlaq, excessive silting caused it to stop flowing in 1750 CE, British raj undertook a three-year renovation in 1817 by Bengal Engineer Group, in 1832-33 Tajewala Barrage dam at Yaumna was built to regulate the flow of water, in 1875-76 Pathrala barrage at Dadupur and Somb river dam downstream of canal were built, in 1889-95 the largest branch of the canal Sirsa branch was constructed, the modern Hathni Kund Barrage was built in 1999 to handle the problem of silting to replace the older Tajewala Barrage.[2]"
"The Western Yamuna Canal begins at the Hathnikund Barrage about 38 kilometres (24 mi) from Dakpathar and south of Doon Valley. The canals irrigate vast tracts of land in the region in Ambala district, Karnal district, Sonepat district, Rohtak district, Jind district, Hisar district and Bhiwani district.[2]"
Pathrala barrage
"Patora dam is located in Odisha. It is constructed across Jonk River in Patora village located 18 km from Nuapada in Nuapada district, Odisha in India."
"Bangomunda a tehsil located at about 95 km from Balangir [1] in Titlagarh sub-division of Bolangir district, Odisha, India, has historical importance.[2][citation needed] Bangomunda is the new name of Banganmura which means Brinjal Firm."
Places of interest
"Ranipur-Jharial, a tourist place in Odisha is just 7 km (4.3 mi) from Bangomunda, is also known as Somatirtha.[3] Durga Mandir, situated in the bank of village's pond, is a historical place, and a famous temple in this locality."
Durga Mandir
"The people of Bangomunda celebrate most of the festivals of Odisha like Rath Yatra Durga Puja, Diwali, Kumar Purnima or Gaja Laxmi Puja, Manabasa Gurubar, Sabitri Brata, Makar Sankranti, Bishuba/Pana Sankranti, Dola Purnima or Holi, Gamha Purnima or Rakshya Bandhan, Kartik Purnima, Nabanna or Nuakhai,Pua jiuntia, Bhai jiuntia, Janmastami, Ram Navami, Saraswati Puja, and Ganesh Puja. The primary festival, however, is Nuakhai. Some festivals are unique to the place, like Chatar jatra, Kansa Badha, Dhanu Yatra,[4] Navratri Durgapuja.Bhai jiuntia is celebrated during this time on Astami Tithi. In ""Bhai jiuntia"" sisters pray for their brothers' long life and tie a thread called ""Jiuntia"". Nuakhai is also an important festival which is celebrated on Panchami tithi of Bhadraba sukla pakshya."
Demographic
"As per 2011 Census of India,Bangomunda had a population of 5,759, Consisting of 2,802 Males and 2,957 Females. Schedule Castes constitutes 1318 people and Schedule Tribes constitutes 481 people. Literacy Rate is 60.27% .[5]"
"There are Government Schools in town for primary as well as secondary education, C.M. High School [6] is for study of class 8th to 10th.[7] Saraswati Shishu Mandir and Akhil Bharatiya English Medium School are private schools. Panchayat Samiti College is also there for College education but limited to Arts stream only.[8] Many of the students are studying outside state for higher education and few have studied in abroad as well (Ashish Kumar Bansal). Beside educational institutes there are centers for Computer Learning and Industrial Training also."
Public transport
The town is in the center point of three commercial hubs of Odisha. Public transportation is limited here as only a bus facility is available. The nearest railway station is in Kantabanji which is about 16 km (9.9 mi) away.[9] The nearest airport is in Raipur.
"Doraemon (Japanese: ドラえもん) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Fujiko F. Fujio. The series has also been adapted into a successful anime series and media franchise. The story revolves around a robotic cat named Doraemon, who travels back in time from the 22nd century to aid a pre-teen boy named Nobita Nobi (野比のび太, Nobi Nobita?)."
"The Doraemon manga series was first published in December 1969 in six different magazines. A total of 1,345 stories were created in the original series, which are published by Shogakukan under the Tentōmushi (てんとう虫?) manga brand, extending to forty-five volumes. The volumes are collected in the Takaoka Central Library in Toyama, Japan, where Fujiko Fujio was born. Turner Broadcasting System bought the rights to the Doraemon anime series in the mid-1980s for a United States English-language release,[1] but canceled it without explanation before broadcasting any episodes. In July 2013 Voyager Japan announced the manga would be released digitally in English via the Amazon Kindle e-book service. It is one of the best-selling manga in the world, having sold over 100 million copies."
Doraemon
"Nighat Dad (Urdu: نگہت داد‎; born c. 1981) is a Pakistani lawyer and Internet activist[1][2][3][4] who founded the not-for-profit organisation Digital Rights Foundation.[5][6][7] In 2015, she was named in the TIME magazine's list of next generation leaders, for helping Pakistani women fight online harassment.[8][9][10]"
"Dad originally hails from a village in Jhang, Punjab and alumni of the University of the Punjab in Lahore. She is a single mother to her son.[11] Professionally, Dad is lawyer, practice criminal and family law and has extensive experience in cyber laws. She is also an independent development consultant and a researcher.[12][13]"
"Sinapali (Odia: ସିନାପାଲି) is a town in Sinapali Tehsil, Nuapada district, Odisha, India.[1] This town is situated on the bank of river Udanti around 70 km from the district Headquarter Nuapada & connected well via roads NH59."
"According to census 2001,[2] The town was"
"Number of Household 2,386 Total Population 9,987 Total male 5,025 Total female 4,962 Total SC Population 1,260 Total ST Population 1,886 Total Literacy Population 4,550 Literacy Male Population 2,989 Literacy Female Population 1,561 Workers Population 3,598 Cultivators Population 713 Female per 1000 Male 987 Worker to Population %age 40"
Language and culture
"The main language spoken in Sinapali and Nuapada district is Oriya(kalahandia form). Oriya is used as a medium of education in schools in Odisha, and English is also used in higher education. Many writers have contributed in the field of literature. Poets like Damodar Patra, Manohar Meher, Narayan Bharasa Meher, Kandarpa Panda, Gayadhar Patra used to write in Oriya during pre-independent era, though the region was included in central province. Damodar Patra is famous for writing Malashree, a lyrical poetic form especially used while offering prayer to Goddess Durga. 40 number of his works have been preserved in the Department of History and Archaeology of Sambalpur University. Manohar Meher is also famous for his writings, though much of his works have remained unpublished. Dr. Mahendra Kumar Mishra is a well-known folklorist with his writings like Paschima Odiahara Loka Sanskruti, Kalahandira Loka Sanskruti, Oral Poetry of Kalahandi and Oral Epics of Kalahandi. Dr. Harekrishna Meher is a creative writer, a poet and a translator at the same time. He has translated Tapasvini of Gangadhara Meher to English, Hindi and Sanskrit languages and Meghaduta to Koshali language. At the same time litterateurs like Chandi Charan Bishi, Benudhar Pande, Manoj Meher, Gobinda Sahoo have carved out their places in their respective spheres of writing."
"Sinapali High School, Sinapali Block Colony Nodal Primary School, Sinapali Central Primary School, Sinapali Balika Primary School, Sinapali Girl's High School, Sinapali Saraswati Sisumandir, Sinapali Rising sun public school Vidyarthee concepts academy Rajashree public school (harijan pada)Primary School, Sinapali primary school,kapsi upper primary school,kapsi prakalpa primary school,padar vata,kapsi Unitty Computer Education, Near Highschool Chowk, Sinapali"
"Sinapali Mahotsav, known as Udanti Mahotsav Dasahara Rathayatra Nuakhai Dipawali Kartik Purnima (Rahas) Dola Purnima (Holi) Pousapurnima (First day of New Year Western Odisha)"
Place
"Jharia, Thipakhol, Mulabasa dam, Liad Project, Chaura Dangar are the famous tourist spots in and around Sinapali. Chauta dangar is the highest mountain range of Nuapada district measuring 995 m. The caves amid the flora and fauna in the elephant shaped mountain can be seen from any part of the region. The samaleswari temple of Baijalpur, Durga temple and Jagannath temple of Sinapali are the destination of many tourists. Chhatar yatra During Dashahara is a famous festival attracting many devotees."
Tourist places
"Patalganga Yogimath Budhikomna(Pataleswar) Sunabeda Wildlife sanctuary Patora Dam Panchabati picnic spot,kapsi dweemuhani sangam(the confluence of river udanti & dhangri jore),Kapsi Samaleswari temple, kapsi Maa Durga temple, sinspali Jharia,Chatiaguda Mani digra,jugenpadar Sinapali Jagannath Temple Thipakhol Chandrasekhar Mahadeb Temple, Sinapali dhansal,sagunbhadi Tikhali dam chalana Bardeswar temple * chalana maa gouri mandir, Chhot Darlipada."
Jonk River is a tributary of Mahanadi River that flows for approximately 210 kilometers through the Nuapada District and Bargarh District in the state of Odisha; and the Mahasamund District and Raipur District in the state of Chhattisgarh in India.[1] The river starts from the Sundabeda plateau and enters Maraguda valley where it is joined by a stream called Gaidhas-nala near Patora village. The river forms Beniadhas fall (80 feet) and Kharaldhas fall (150 feet) before entering the valley.[2] It joins Mahanadi at Sheorinarayan.
"Ib Valley Coalfield is located in Jharsuguda district in the Indian state of Odisha, in the valley of the Ib River, a tributary of the Mahanadi. ′"
"In 1900, when Bengal Nagpur Railway was building a bridge across the Ib River, coal was accidentally discovered. The first coalmine in the Ib Valley Coalfield was established by Himgir Rampur Coal Company in 1909. Other underground collieries were opened by private operators till nationalization of the coal industry in 1973, when it was placed under Western Coalfields Limited. In 1986, it came under South Eastern Coalfields Limited and in 1992 under Mahanadi Coalfields Limited. With nationalization came the age of open cast mines. Ib Valley Coalfield operates three major open cast mines - Lajkura Opencast Mine, Samleswari Opencast Mine and Lilari Opencast Mine. Production of the field has risen sharply from 0.55 million tonnes in 1972-73 to 15.51 million tonnes in 2002-2003.[1][2][3]"
The coalfield
"Ib Valley Coalfield lies between latitudes 21° 41′N and 22° 06′N and longitudes 83° 30′E and 84° 08′E . It covers an area of 1,375 square kilometres (531 sq mi).[4]"
"According to Geological Survey of India, the Talcher Coalfield has reserves of 38.65 billion tonnes, the highest in India. Ib Valley Coalfield has reserves of 22.3 billion tonnes, the third highest in India.[5]"
This coalfield forms part of the large Gondwana basin that extends across several districts in adjoining Chhattisgarh.[2]
Transport
Ib Valley Coalfield is served by South East Central Railway. The main railway station for passenger traffic is Brajrajnagar on the Tatanagar-Bilaspur section of Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line. The area links to NH 200.[4]
Construction of the 52 km (32 mi) long Jharsuguda-Barpalli rail line is essential for transportation of coal from the Ib Valley Coalfield with a potential of 90 million tonnes per annum. Mahanadi Coalfields Limited will fund this project.[6]
"National Highway 63 (NH 63) (previously National Highway 16), is a National Highway in India, total length 460 km (290 mi) that connects Nizamabad in Telangana and Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh.[1] It passes through the states of Telangana, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.[2]"
"The highway passes through Telangana: Armoor, Mortad, Kammarpally, Metpalli, Koratla, Jagtial, Yelgonda, Lakshettipet, Mancherial, Jaipur and Chinnoor Maharashtra: sironcha, Kopela and Pathagudam Chhattisgarh: Bhopalpatnam, Madded, Bijapur, Nimed, Bhairamgarh, Varetumnar, Gidam and Bagmundi.[3] The highway crosses National Highway 7 at Armoor. National Highway 202 joins this highway at Bhopalpatnam."
"The highway crosses Godavari River on border of Karimnagar district and Nizamabad district of Telangana state, Pranahita River on border of Maharashtra and Telangana and Indravati River on border of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh."
"Sabari River (Telugu: శబరి నది) is one of the main tributaries of Godavari. It originates from the western slopes of Eastern Ghats in Odisha state from Sinkaram hill ranges at 1370 m MSL.[1] It is also known as Kolab river in Odisha.The Sabari river basin receives nearly 1250 mm annual average rainfall. It forms common boundary between Chhattisgarh and Odisha states and later enters into Andhra Pradesh to merge with River Godavari.[2] Upper Kolab project, located in Odisha across the Sabari is a major dam project supplying water for irrigation and Hydro power generation."
The 200 km long stretch of the river forming boundary between Chhattisgarh and Odisha drops by 2.25 meters per km length on average. This stretch of the river has substantial hydro electricity generation potential by building medium head (< 20 m) barrages in series to minimize land submergence.[3][4][5] The surplus water of Indravati River in Odisha can also be diverted to Sabari river via Jaura Nallah through which Indravati flood waters naturally overflow into Sabari basin.
"Sileru River (known as Machkund in its upper reaches) is the major tributary of Sabari which joins Sabari river at tri-junction boundary point of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Sileru river has huge potential of hydro electricity generation which has been substantially harnessed by constructing Machkund, Balimela, upper Sileru, Donkarayi and lower Sileru hydro power projects."
Interstate dispute
"Balimela Dam Official name ବାଲିମେଳା ବନ୍ଧ Location Balimela Coordinates 18°18′29″N 82°15′23″E﻿ / ﻿18.30806°N 82.25639°E﻿ / 18.30806; 82.25639Coordinates: 18°18′29″N 82°15′23″E﻿ / ﻿18.30806°N 82.25639°E﻿ / 18.30806; 82.25639 Purpose Irrigation, Power Status Completed Opening date 1988 Owner(s) Odisha Operator(s) Odisha Dam and spillways Type of dam Gravity and Masonry Impounds Sileru River Height 70 m (230 ft) maximum. Length 1,821 m (5,974 ft) Spillway type Ogee section Spillway capacity 10930 cumecs Reservoir Creates Balimela Reservoir Total capacity 3,610×10^6 m3 (0.87 cu mi) Active capacity 2,676×10^6 m3 (0.642 cu mi) Inactive capacity 934×10^6 m3 (0.224 cu mi) Catchment area 4,910 km2 (1,900 sq mi) Surface area 184.53 km2 (71.25 sq mi) Power station Operator(s) Odisha Turbines 6 × 60, 2 × 75 MW Installed capacity 510 MW"
"The Balimela Reservoir is located in Malkangiri district, Odisha, India on the river Sileru which is a tributary of the Godavari river.[1] The gross storage capacity of Balimela reservoir is 3610 million cubic meters.[2]"
"Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Odisha states entered into agreements to construct Balimela dam as a joint project and share the Sileru river waters available equally at Balimela dam site. Odisha developed the 360 MW (6 × 60 MW units) power house by diverting the Balimela waters to the Potteru sub-river basin. A barrage at Surlikonda across the Potteru stream was constructed to redirect the discharge from Balimela Power House into two main canals for irrigation; one on the right side named Tamasha Main Canal and the second on the left side named Gompakonda Main Canal. These two canals were constructed under the Potteru Irrigation Project for irrigation in Malkangiri district, the most backward district of the state and thereby lifting the living standard of the inhabitants. Two more power generation units 75 MW each were added under stage-2 to increase the installed capacity up to 510 MW."
"The share of Andhra Pradesh from the available water in the Belimela is released downstream into the river for generating hydro electricity located at Upper Sileru, Donkarai and lower Sileru Hydro power stations ultimately utilizing the water for irrigation in the Godavari delta during dry season."
"Odisha is not permitting AP to install hydropower units (30 MW capacity) at the toe of Balimela dam on the grounds of another jurisdiction. Though AP is permitted in the agreements,[3] Odisha says the site of power house is located in Odisha's territory and AP cannot install the hydro power units in its land. Thus 30 MW power generation capacity at a very low generation cost can not be developed for the last 40 years due to the dispute. The agreement also states that Kolab river surplus water available in Upper Kolab reservoir can be diverted jointly by Odisha and AP to Sileru/Machkund river basin for enhancing hydro power potential substantially. This diversion scheme has also not materialized until now."
"National Highway 163 (previously NH 202) is a National Highway in India that links Hyderabad in Telangana and Bhopalpatnam in Chhattisgarh. The road till Warangal was already a state highway. It was extended and upgraded to a NH as the shortest route to connect Chhattisgarh to an important city. Earlier it was NH202. The new bridge across the Godavari is open now.An excellent road, which passes through the Tadvai wildlife sanctuary, right upto the Telangana-Chattisgarh border at Lottipittagandi. Beyond this the road is unpaved.The Bogatha falls lie 1 km to the right, c.24 km from Eturunagaram, and are visible from the road."
"In Hyderabad city, the highway passes through Golnaka, Amberpet, Ramanthapur, Uppal Kalan and Ghatkesar areas along the northern banks of River Musi.It is also connected to Hyderabad's Nehuru Outer Ring Road The highway passes through Ghatkesar, Bhongir, Aleru, Jangaon, Raghunathpalle, Station Ghanpur, Warangal, Atmakur, Mallampalli, Mulug, Eturu Nagaram, Chandrupatla and Bhadrakali.[1] It passes through the second largest city in Telangana that is warangal.For long distance there is a one way road.In middle the road becomes double from HP Avinash Petrol Pump to alankar circle in warangal.There are prominent schools like DPSWarangal and Hyderabad Public School. It is arbitrarily calculated about 280 kilometers, in which the stretch in Telangana is about 244 kilometers and in Chhattisgarh 36 kilometers. The highway joins National Highway 63 (India) at Bhopalpatnam, but there is no bridge across River Godavari at Nagaram village so travelers have to go all the way to Bhadrachalam to get into Chhattisgarh.As on 16 Jan 2016, the 1.8 Kilometeres road bridge across the Godavari, connecting Bhopalpatnam in Chhattisgarh and Eturunagaram in Telangana has been made available for the traveling public. The highway joins National Highway 44 (India) at Hyderabad. This road connects medaram,which is famous for sammaka-sarakka jathara.During this jathara(Fest) it becomes easier for the public to travel"
Connecting
Ghatkesar is a suburb in the Medchal district of the Indian state of Telangana. It is the mandal headquarters of Ghatkesar mandal in Keesara revenue division.[2][3] It also a part of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority.[4]
Ghatkesar is located at 17°26′58″N 78°41′07″E﻿ / ﻿17.4494°N 78.6853°E﻿ / 17.4494; 78.6853.[5]
"Town has notable engineering colleges that include, Kommuri Pratap Reddy Institute Of Technology, Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology, Nalla Narasimha Reddy Education Society’s Group of Institutions, and CVSR College of Engineering."
Transport
"Ghatkesar is very well connected by road and rail. National Highway 163 passes through the town, that connects it to the cities of Hyderabad and Warangal."
"Town also has a railway station, which is on the Secunderabad–Kazipet line, that comes under South Central Railway of Indian Railways. Ghatkesar has topped the fourth fastest growing mandal in population growth, with a decadal population growth record of 112%.[6]"
Uppal Kalan is a neighbourhood of Hyderabad in the Medchal district of the Indian state of Telangana. It is the mandal headquarters of Uppal mandal in Keesara revenue division.[1] It was a municipality prior to its merger into the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.[2]
"As of 2001[update] India census,[3] Uppal Kalan had a population of 118,259. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Uppal Kalan has an average literacy rate of 73%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 80%, and female literacy is 66%. In Uppal Kalan, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age."
National Highway 202 (India) on the outskirts of Uppal Kaan
"Talcher Coalfield is located in Angul district in the Indian state of Odisha, in the valley of the Brahmani."
"According to Geological Survey of India, the Talcher Coalfield has reserves of 38.65 billion tonnes, the highest in India.[1]"
"Talcher Coalfield covers an area of 500 km2 (190 sq mi). The coal is of lower grade containing only about 35 per cent of fixed carbon, 40 per cent volatile matter and 25 per cent ash content.[2] As of 2011, nearly one hundred thousand tonnes of coal is dispatched daily to power stations in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and other parts of India.[3]"
"Coal was discovered in the Talcher Coalfields at Gopalprasad in 1837. Handidhua Colliery was opened by M/s Villiers in 1921. NCDC opened several mines – at South Balanda in 1960, Nandira in 1962 and Jagannath in 1972. Production rose from 0.91 million tonnes in 1972-73 to 33.10 million tonnes in 2001-02. Talcher Coalfield is subdivided into five production/ administrative areas: Talcher, Jagannath, Kalinga, Lingaraj and Hingula.[4][5][6]"
Transport
Talcher Coalfield was linked by a rail line taking off from Nergundi on the east coast in 1922.[7]
"Bandhabahal is a small town in the Jharsuguda district in Odisha, India.[1] It has a number of coal mines, which come under Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (M.C.L) and the Belpahar Open Cast Mines (B.O.C.M ).[2] The place is now getting huge attention because of its development in the field of infrastructure and finance. The School DAVPS Bandhabahal is a known name among the CBSE schools in India. Bandhabahal too is now a known name on the map of Odisha, India."
Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (M.C.L)
Attractions
Jagannath Temple Open Cast Coal Mines Ratha Yatra BIG Dumpher Section EMCL Coal Washery
Nearest tourist interests
"Odisha 2nd Highest Jagannath Temple Bandhabahal Koilighughar waterfall (Lakhanpur) Historical Kolabira Fort The Airport established during the World War 2 Kali Mandir, K.M.Road, Jharsuguda JRD TATA Park, Belpahar, Jharsuguda Lal Patthar, Belpahar Temple Courtyard and sculptures Golf ground, bandhabahal CHANDI MANDIR,BRAJRAJNAGAR"
Dhanu Jatra Rath Yatra Durga Puja Nua Khai Bhet Ghat Ganesh Puja (Bus Stand) Ganesh Puja(3 Stair IB SECTOR) Ganesh Puja(Enquiry Club 4/4) Mangla Puja(Jai Maa Group) Kartik Puja Biswakarma puja Mendhpath Puja Chhath Puja
By Road this place is well connected with all major towns in Odisha The Nearest Railway Station is Belpahar. The Nearest Airport is Bhubaneswar now Jharsuguda.
Distance from places
Belpahar - 11 km Brajrajnagar - 18 km Jharsuguda - 35 km Sundargarh - 64 km Sambalpur - 85 km Bhubaneswer - 400 km IB Thermal-07 km
"Bhikampali ଭିକମପାଲି Village Bhikampali Show map of Odisha Bhikampali Show map of India Location of Bhikampali in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°47′12.5″N 83°34′14″E﻿ / ﻿21.786806°N 83.57056°E﻿ / 21.786806; 83.57056Coordinates: 21°47′12.5″N 83°34′14″E﻿ / ﻿21.786806°N 83.57056°E﻿ / 21.786806; 83.57056 Country  India State Odisha District Jharsuguda Official Language Odia Native Language Odia and Kosli First settled 1957 Government  • Type Gram Panchayat  • Body Gram Panchayat of Bhikampali Area  • Total 3.28 km2 (1.27 sq mi) Elevation 208 m (682 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 920 [1] Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 768 226 Area code(s) +91-6645 Vehicle registration OR-23 Nearest city Raigarh Vidhan Sabha constituency Brajarajnagar Lok Sabha constituency Bargarh Avg. summer temperature 45 °C (113 °F) Avg. winter temperature 23 °C (73 °F)"
"Bhikampali (ଭିକମପାଲି) is a medium-sized village in the Jharsuguda district of Odisha, India.[2] It is situated on the banks of Badkelo River in the foothill of Chhelia Pahad. The village is located at a distance of 60 km from the district headquarter of Jharsuguda. It is within the Brajarajnagar assembly constituency, and the Bargarh Parliament constituency. According to the 2011 census,[3] its population is 920."
The name Bhikampali is derived from Sanskrit word 'Vikhsapally' which itself is a combination of words 'Vikhsa' and 'Pally'. It later took the flavour of local Koshali language and became Bhikamapali.
The ancient town of Padampur was submerged in the backwater of Hirakud Dam when construction of the dam was completed in 1957. This led to people of Padampur town to relocated to multiple nearby small villages located in higher altitudes. One diaspora settled in a very small village named 'Vikshapally' around 2 km from the submerged town. This led to the settlement of the village now known as Bhikampali.
"Bhikampali is situated in the foothill of Chhelia Pahad hill. Total are of the village is 3.28 square km (811.620 acres).[4] Two small rivers Sankelo and Badkelo flows to the Mahanadi river to the west of the village. The Mahanadi river with Hirakud reservoir backwater is at a distance of 2 km from the village. Hemgir Forest Range lies to the north of the village. The village is on the outskirts of Chhotanagpur plateau. The adjacent Chhelia Pahad hill is rich in Quartzite. The village is very near to the Chhattisgarh border and surrounded by other villages like Chikhilapali, Kapilapur, Bausenpali and Attabira."
Climate
The village is situated at 21.47° north longitude and 83.34° east latitude and at a height of 649–682 feet above mean sea level. The highest temperature recorded in summer is 48.0 °C and it has an average rain fall of 1527 mm.
The National Highway 130 (Old NH 200) (Raipur to Chandikhol) passes through the village. So it is well connected to the district headquarter Jharsuguda and nearest city Raigarh in Chhattisgarh via road. It is well connected to neighbouring villages through pukka roads constructed under Pradhan Mantri Gramya Sadak Yojna. Ferry service is available to neighbouring Bargarh and Sambalpur districts through Hirakud reservoir. There is no railroad connectivity to the village as of now. The nearest major railway station is Raigarh at a distance of 22 km. The nearest major railway stations in Odisha are Belpahar (40 km) and Jharsuguda.
"Traditionally, most of the villagers depend on farming for a livelihood. But from the past two decades, two major mines of TRL Krosaki[7] and OCL India[8] are operational in the nearby Chhelia Pahad hill. These have provided alternate employment opportunities for the villagers and also prompted a real estate boom in the village. There is a branch of Utkal Grameen Bank to cater to the banking needs of the villagers.[9] Also, a co-operative society bank branch is there in the village for agricultural financing."
"Bhikampali village has a population of 920 of which 448 are males while 472 are females as per Population Census 2011. In Bhikampali village population of children with age 0-6 is 112 which makes up 12.17% of total population of the village. Average Sex Ratio of Bhikampali village is 1054 which is higher than Odisha state average of 979. Child Sex Ratio for the Bhikampali as per census is 1000, higher than Odisha average of 941.[10] Bhikampali village has higher literacy rate compared to Odisha. In 2011, the literacy rate of Bhikampali village was 72.90% compared to 72.87% of Odisha. In Bhikampali Male literacy stands at 86.73% while female literacy rate was 59.86%."
"Primary education is provided by Bhikampali Model Primary School under Odisha government. It is one of the reputed primary education institution in the area with students constantly doing well in district level over the years. The secondary education is provided by Bhikampali Panchayat High School[11] affiliated to Board of Secondary Education, Odisha. Established in 1962, it is one of the oldest high school in the region. The nearest tertiary educational institution is Mahima College, Bijapali."
"Hinduism is the prevalent religion of the village. Most of the village population is from Schedule Tribe (ST). Schedule Tribe (ST) constitutes 42.17% while Schedule Caste (SC) 8.80% of the total population in the village. Goddess Padmasini is the village deity.[13] There are temples for Goddes Padmasini, Goddes Samalei, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman in the village."
"Only a decade old, the new Padmasini temple is a major tourist attraction. The nearby Ghanteswari Temple and boating facilities in Hirakud reservoir brings many people to the village. All the temples of Padampur town got submerged after Hirakud dam was completed in 1957. Remnants of those temples submerged in Hirakud dam backwater are still present to this date. In the summer season, the receding water of the dam makes the structures become visible. The hidden treasures are a major attraction for the historians and civilians alike.[14] The famous Koili Ghugar waterfall is just 15 km from the village.[15]"
Bhikampali
"Kosli Sambalpuri Western Odia Native to India Region Western Odisha Native speakers 520,000 (2001 census)[1] (additional speakers may have identified as Oriya speakers) Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan Eastern Odia Kosli Writing system Odia[2][3][4][5] Language codes ISO 639-3 spv Glottolog west2384[6]"
"Kosli (Odia: କୋଶଳୀ ଭାଷା Kosali), also known as Sambalpuri, is the western-variation of Odia language (also self-proclaimed as a language among the Odia languages).[2]"
Script
Sambalpuri is written in Odia alphabet.[2][3][4][5]
Literature
"No written literature was created in Kosli till the late nineteenth century. Ancient stone inscriptions, writing on copper plates, palm leaves are not available in this language. The first Kosli writing appeared in the year 1891 in the weekly magazine ""Sambalpur Hiteisani"" published from Debagarh.[7] It was titled ""Sambalpur Anchalar Praachin Kabitaa"", written by""Madhusudan"".Following is an excerpt from the poem:"
"""kaha go dUtI muin kenta karsin go"
"In this way, between 1891 and 1947, a total of 35 poets wrote 64 poems only.[8] The period up to 1891 A.D. can be termed as the dark age in the history of Sambalpuri literature. From 1891 to 1970 can be termed as the infant stage of Sambalpuri literature as very few Sambalpuri literature was produced during this period. Only after 1970 there was an awakening to develop the language. Satya Narayan Bohidar was the first man who not only created Sambalpuri literature but also encouraged others to write in Sambalpuri. He also proved in many literary forums that Sambalpuri is a separate language. From 1970 onwards people of Western Orissa realized that Sambalpuri is a separate language and literature can be produced in this language. More and more people engaged themselves in creating Sambalpuri literature. A brief account of the contribution of Samalpuri writers, whose contribution has enriched Samalpuri literature is given here. It is neither feasible nor desirable to give an exhaustive list of writers and books of Sambalpuri language. Only those writers, whose work have boosted the development of Sambalpuri literature or enhanced the image of Sambalpuri literature is mentioned below."
"Satya Narayan Bohidar (1913–1980) – His first poem ""Anubhuti"" was published in 1931. He wrote 119 poems and one short Sambalpuri Grammar book, named "" Sankhipta Samalpuri Vyakaran "".[9] Khageswar Seth – He wrote ""Paerchha Sati"" (1949). Indramani Sahu (1923–2006) – He wrote ""Jharmali"" (1953), "" Kosali Ramayan "" (1997) Nil Madhab Panigrahi – A strong proponent of Sambalpuri language, He gave up writing Oriya for his love for mother tongue, Sambalpuri. He founded, published and edited ""Nisan"", a Sambalpuri literary magazine which popularized Sambalpuri language and generated many Sambalpuri writers. He founded ""Nisan Sahitya Sansad"" and undertook the work of publishing Sambalpuri books written by others. His famous work is ""Mahabharat Katha"", the translation of Mahabharat in Sambalpuri.[10] He co-authored ""Samalpuri – Kosali Vyakaran"" book with Prafulla Kumar Tripathy. Prafulla Kumar Tripathy – He compiled the book ""Samalpuri Oriya Shabdakosha"" (1987), a Sambalpuri to Oriya Dictionary. He is a celebrated figure in Oriya and Sambalpuri literature and grammar. He has also received Sahitya Academy Puraskar for his collection of Oriya short stories, ""Nija Singhasana"". Settled in Bhubaneswar, he continues to work towards getting Sambalpuri language an official status. He has also co-authored ""Samalpuri – Kosali Vyakaran"" book with Nil Madhab Panigrahi. Prem Ram Dubey – To popularize Sambalpuri language, he published ""Hame Kosali Hamar Bhasa Kosali"", a Sambalpuri literary magazine, and ""Kosal Khabar"" a news based magazine. He wrote many articles in these magazines. Hema Chandra Acharya (Born 20.4.1926 – Died 26.8.2009) – His works include ""Satar Sati Brundavati"", ""Kathani Sat Satani"", ""Ram Raha"" (2001). Ram Raha is the Sambalpuri version of the Raamayana. He has also written a novel ""Nuni"". He is popular among the masses as the 'Kosal Balmiki' for his Ram Raha. Mangalu Charan Biswal (Born 4.5.1935) – He wrote many Sambalpuri plays, among which ""Bhukha"" is famous, as it was filmed and earned many awards.[11] Haldhar Nag (Born 31.3.1950) – He is a God's gift to Kosli language.[12] He has written many Kosli poems, such as ""Mahasati Urmila"", ""Achhia"", etc. His works has been compiled into ""Lokakabi Haladhar Granthabali""[13] and ""Surata"". He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2016.[14] Binod Pasayat – He wrote ""Kayan Baetha"" (1973). Dolgobind Bisi – He published a Kosali literary magazine ""Kosalshree"" and wrote ""Kosali Bhasha Sundari""(1984). He published the ""Kosali Ramayan"" written by Sri Indramani Sahu. Nimai Charan Panigrahi – He has written many books including ""Bhugale Bakhani"", ""Kham Khamalo"", etc. His articles ""Kosali Sabad Jharan"", published in ""Bharni"", in Kosali literary magazine was very famous. Harekrishna Meher : He has translated the Meghaduta of Kalidas to ""Kosli Meghaduta"".[15] Surama Mishra : She has written a children book ""Titi Tian.[16] The book is popular among the children of western Odisha. Pradyumna Bisi :""Jharjhari"" a sambalpuri kaabya written by Pradyumna Bisi. In which the poet represent a women as a brook & brook also as women.their way of living are same.The book published in 2014"
Kosal Kranti Dal (KKD) is a regional political outfit of Odisha with particular focus on western Odisha. KKD is mainly focused on the creation of a separate Kosal state by the bifurcation of Odisha.
"As reported by various news agencies KKD was floated in Odisha in 2007.[1] The Party secretary Mr. Baidyanath Mishra said that KKD had been recognized by the Election Commission. Since 2007 it is fighting assembly and lok sabha elections. Mishara announced that ""the party would fight for a separate state comprising ten districts of western Odisha and Athmallik sub-division of Angul district as he alleged that the area remained neglected by successive governments during the past 60 years."
"As of 2013 it is quite active conducting strikes in the proposed 10 Western Odisha districts, which is widely being supported by the local public. It has intensified its demand in the wake of Telangana being granted statehood."
Main demands
"Separate Kosal state comprising Western Odisha districts and Athmallik subdivision.[2] Recognition of Kosli language and culture.[3] Development of Western Odisha with regards to education, agriculture, infrastructure and health services. Recognition of history of Kosal. Demand for second State reorganisation panel.[4]"
"Paytm Type of site E-commerce Founded 2010 (2010) Headquarters Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India Area served India Founder(s) Vijay Shekhar Sharma Key people Vijay Shekhar Sharma (CEO) Industry Internet Services Online shopping Parent One97[1] Website paytm.com Alexa rank 294 (As of November 2016)[2] Current status Online"
"Paytm is an Indian e-commerce website headquartered in Noida, India. It was launched in 2010 and adds to the industry of FinTech in India. It is owned by One97 Communications. The firm started by offering mobile recharging, adding bill payment and e-commerce, with products similar to businesses such as Flipkart, Amazon.com, Snapdeal. In 2015, it further added booking bus travel.[3] Paytm also launched movie ticket booking by partnering with Cinépolis in the year 2016.[4][5]"
"Paytm was founded and incubated by One97 Communications in 2010 as a prepaid mobile recharge website. Paytm is an acronym for ""Pay Through Mobile"".[6] with Android, Windows and iOS apps."
"In 2014, the company launched Paytm Wallet, now India's largest mobile payment service platform with over 100 million wallets & 10 million app downloads.[7] According to data shared by App Annie, a mobile-tracking website, Amazon has taken the second position from Paytm in terms of mobile downloads.[8]"
Funding
"In March 2015, Indian industrialist Ratan Tata made personal investment in the firm.[9] The same month, the company received a $575 million investment from Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group,[10] after Ant Financial Services Group, an Alibaba Group affiliate, took 25% stake in One97 as part of a strategic agreement.[11] Paytm borrowed 300cr from ICICI Bank in March 2016 as working capital."
Partners
"The application enables users to perform purchases such as air tickets, taxi booking, mobile recharge, DTH bill payment and electricity payment, among others.[12] Paytm users can also pay for fuel at Indian Oil Petrol pump through the wallet.[13] Users can also book movie tickets as the e-commerce player has partnered with PVR Cinemas.[14]"
Payments bank
"In 2015 Paytm received a license from Reserve Bank of India for starting India's first payments bank. The bank intends to use Paytm’s existing user base for offering new services, including debit cards, savings accounts, online banking and transfers, to enable a cashless economy. The payments bank would be a separate entity in which the founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma will hold 51%, One97 Communications will hold 39% and 10% will be held by a subsidiary of One97 and Sharma.[15]"
"Paytm is also approved as an operating unit for Bharat Bill Payment System, as a result of which users can pay their bills anytime and anywhere.[16]"
"Indravati National Park Indravati Tiger Reserve IUCN category II (national park) Location Bijapur district, Chhattisgarh, India Nearest city Jagdalpur Coordinates 19°12′18″N 81°1′53″E﻿ / ﻿19.20500°N 81.03139°E﻿ / 19.20500; 81.03139Coordinates: 19°12′18″N 81°1′53″E﻿ / ﻿19.20500°N 81.03139°E﻿ / 19.20500; 81.03139 Area 1258.37 sq.km. Established 1978 Governing body Conservator of Forest (Field Director) http://www.itrbijapur.in/"
Indravati National Park is a national park located in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh state of India.[1] It derives its name from the nearby Indravati River. It is home to one of the last populations of rare wild buffalo.
"Indravati National Park is the finest and most famous wildlife parks of Chhattisgarh. It is one among the two project tiger sites in Chhattisgarh along with Udanti-sitanadi, Indravati National Park is located in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh. The park derives its name from the Indravati River, which flows from east to west and forms the northern boundary of the reserve with the Indian state of Maharashtra. With a total area of approximately 2799.08 km2, Indravati attained the status of a national park in 1978 and a tiger reserve in 1983 under the famous Project Tiger of India, to become one of the most famous tiger reserves of India."
Topography
The topography of the park mainly comprises undulating hilly terrain with altitude ranging between 177 to 599 m above the sea level. The park is famous for its unique and diverse wildlife and bird species including some of the most endangered species such as wild buffalos and hill mynas. A series of beautiful hill ranges with lush green vegetation and unique and varied wildlife make Indravati National Park a must visit for wildlife enthusiasts and nature lovers.
"The flora in the Indravati National Park is mainly comprises tropical moist and dry deciduous type with predominance of the sal, teak and bamboo trees. There are also rich patches of excellent grasslands providing much required food to wild buffalos, chital, barking deer, nilgai, gaurs and other herbivores of the park. The most commonly found trees in the park are teak, lendia, salai, mahua, tendu, semal, haldu, ber and jamun."
Wildlife
"Indravati National Park has one of the last populations of the endangered wild Asian buffalo. The national park is also home to a variety of other ungulate species. Reported from the area are gaur (Indian bison), nilgai, blackbuck, chausingha (four-horned antelope), sambar, chital, Indian muntjac, Indian spotted chevrotain and wild boar. Large predators are represented by tigers, leopards, sloth bears, dholes (wild dog) and striped hyenas. Smaller mammals include flying squirrel, porcupine, pangolins, rhesus monkeys and langurs among many others.[2] The commonly found reptiles in the park are freshwater crocodile, monitor lizard, Indian chameleon, common krait, Indian rock python, cobra and Russell's viper to name a few. The park also gives shelter to the large variety of birds of which the hill myna is the most important species."
"Indravati National Park is easily approachable from Jagdalpur, the district headquarters of Bastar. The village Kutrue, the main entry point of the park, is situated at the distance of 22.4 km north of Jagdalpur-Bhopalpattanam road. The Kutrue link road is at the distance of 145.6 km from Jagdalpur. Raipur (486 km) has the nearest airport and Jagdalpur (168 km) is the nearest railhead from the Indravati National Park."
Visiting
The best season to visit the park is from 15 December to 15 June.
"Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife park in Chhattisgarh, India. The sanctuary houses a number of endangered animal species, including leopards, Bengal tigers, and wild bison. ű"
"The Achanakmar wildlife sanctuary was established in 1975, under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. Achanakmar has been declared a Tiger Reserve under the Project Tiger in 2009. It comprises 557.55 km2 of forest, and is linked by the hilly Kanha-Achanakmar Corridor to the tiger reserve in Kanha, Madhya Pradesh.[1] The park is part of Mungeli And Bilaspur Forest Division in northwest Chhattisgarh, around 50 km north of Mungeli. The nearest railway station is at Belgahna. Achanakmar is easily approachable from Pendra Road and Bilaspur railway station. Buses, rental car and other vehicles are available to visit and enjoy this beautiful place. Achanakmar has a restaurant, a coffee house and many other facilities. The sanctuary is close to Amarkantak, the source of the Narmada River.[2]"
Flora
"Forest vegetation mainly comprises sal, saja, bija, and bamboo."
"The sanctuary is home to leopards, gaur, chital, Bengal tigers, striped hyena, jackals, the sloth bear, dhole, sambar, nilgai, four-horned antelope, chinkara, blackbuck, Indian muntjac and wild boar, among other species."
Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary at IndiaTravel.com Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary at india9.com WWF India maikal/kanha_achanakmar official website Achanakmar Tiger Reserve
"The Satpura Range is a range of hills in central India. The range rises in eastern Gujarat state running east through the border of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh to the east till Chhattisgarh. The range parallels the Vindhya Range to the north, and these two east-west ranges divide Indian Subcontinent into the Indo-Gangetic plain of northern India and the Deccan Plateau of the south. The Narmada River originates from north-eastern end of Satpura and runs in the depression between the Satpura and Vindhya ranges, draining the northern slope of the Satpura range, running west towards the Arabian Sea. The Tapti River originates in the eastern-central part of Satpura, crossing the range in the center and running west at the range's southern slopes before meeting the Arabian Sea at Surat, draining the central and southern slopes of the range. The Godavari River and its tributaries drain the Deccan plateau, which lies south of the range, and the Mahanadi River drains the easternmost portion of the range. The Godavari and Mahanadi rivers flow into the Bay of Bengal. At its eastern end, the Satpura range meets the hills of the Chota Nagpur Plateau."
"Satpura is originally derived from Sanskrit word """"Shatpura"""" (Devnagari: शतपुरा) which means Hundred Mountains."
"The eastern portion of the range receives more rainfall than the western portion, and the eastern range, together with the Eastern Ghats, constitute the eastern highlands moist deciduous forests ecoregion. The seasonally dry western portion of the range, together with the Narmada valley and the western Vindhya Range, are within the Narmada valley dry deciduous forests ecoregion."
Ecology
"Most of the Satpura range was heavily forested; but the area has been subject to gradual deforestation in recent decades, although significant stands of forests remain. These forest enclaves provide habitat to several at risk and endangered species, including the Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris), gaur (Bos gaurus), dhole (Cuon alpinus), sloth bear (Melursus ursinus), chousingha (Tetracerus quadricornis), and blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra)."
"The national parks, hill stations, reserves and towns in the Satpura range attract hundreds of thousands of visitors each year."
"Pachmarhi, a beautiful hill station in the range is located in Madhya Pradesh, has a range of attractions from its forests, animal reserve, rivers and rocky terrain. It is a popular destination for trekking, fishing and adventure activities.It is also known as Queen of satpura because of its mystic beauty.And became known destination for Bollywood film shootings.Highest point of satpura range Dhupgarh is located in Pachmarhi. Satpura National Park is located in the district Hoshangabad of Madhya Pradesh. It gets its name from the Satpura ranges. It covers an area of 524 km2 (202 sq mi). Satpura National Park, and along with the adjoining Bori and Panchmarhi Sanctuaries, provides 1,427 km2 (551 sq mi) of unique central Indian highland ecosystem.The terrain of the national park is extremely rugged and consists of sandstone peaks, narrow gorges, ravines and dense forests. Satpura National Park, being part of a unique ecosystem, is very rich in biodiversity. The animals here are tiger, leopard, sambar, chital, Bhedki, nilgai, four-horned antelope, chinkara, bison (gour), wild boar, wild dog, bear, black buck, fox, porcupine, flying squirrel, mouse deer, Indian giant squirrel, etc. There are a variety of birds. Hornbills and peafowl are common birds found here."
Satpura Range
Other
INS Satpura (F48) is a Shivalik class frigate of the Indian Navy named for the range.
Places to Stay
There are Madhya Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation and Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation hotels.
"Chhatarpur Temple new delhi A South Indian-style temple added in the complex Chhatarpur Temple new delhi Location in New Delhi Name Proper name Shri Adhya Katyani Shakti Peeth Mandir Devanagari श्री आद्य कात्यायनी शक्ती पीठ मन्दिर Tamil ஸ்ரீ ஆத்ய காத்யாயனி சக்தி பீட மந்திர் Bengali শ্রী আদ্য কাত্যাযনী শক্তী পীঠ মন্দির Malayalam ശ്രീ ആദ്യ കാത്യായനീ ശക്തീ പീഠ മന്ദിര്‍ Geography Coordinates 28°30′7″N 77°10′46″E﻿ / ﻿28.50194°N 77.17944°E﻿ / 28.50194; 77.17944Coordinates: 28°30′7″N 77°10′46″E﻿ / ﻿28.50194°N 77.17944°E﻿ / 28.50194; 77.17944 Country India Location Mehrauli, New Delhi Culture Primary deity Katyayani (Durga) Architecture Architectural styles Hindu temple architecture History and governance Date built 1970 Creator Baba Sant Nagpal"
"Chhatarpur Temple (Officially: Shri Aadya Katyayani Shakti Peetham) is located in a down town area in south of Delhi - Chhatarpur. This is the second largest temple complex in India, and is dedicated to Goddess, Katyayani. It is located at Chhatarpur,[1] on the southwestern outskirts of the city of Delhi and is just 4 km (2.5 mi) from Qutub Minar, off Mehrauli-Gurgaon road.[2][3]"
"The temple was established in 1974, by Baba Sant Nagpal ji, who died in 1998. His samadhi shrine lies in the premises of the Shiv-Gauri Nageshwar Mandir within the temple complex.[4]"
"This temple was considered as the biggest temple in India and second largest in the world, before the Akshardham Temple was created in 2005 in Delhi. This temple is totally constructed from marble and on all the facets there is jaali (perforated stone or latticed screen) work. It can be classified a vessara style of architecture."
The complex
"The entire temple complex spread over 60 acres (24.3 ha), has over 20 small and large temples divided in three different complexes. The main deity in the temple is Goddess Katyayani, a part of Navadurga, the nine forms of Hindu goddess Durga or Shakti, worshipped during the Navratri celebrations."
"A side shrine within the main temple houses a shrine of Goddess Katyayani (Durga), which opens only during the bi-annual Navratri season, when thousands of people throng the premises for darshan. One nearby room has been made as living room with tables and chairs made in silver, and another regarded as the Shayan Kaksha (Bed Room), where a bed, dressing table and table are carved in silver. This shrine opens on a large satsang or prayer hall, where religious discourses and bhajans, (religious songs) are held. Just at the entrance to the main temple, stand an old tree, where devotees tie holy threads for wish fulfillment.[5] Another shrine of Goddess Durga is open to devotees morning to evening, it lies above the shrines dedicated to Radha Krishna, and Lord Ganesh.[2]"
"Apart from this the complex also has other temples dedicated to Lord Rama, Lord Ganesha and Lord Shiva. The temples have been built in both South and North Indian style of temple architecture."
"The Vaan River is a river of central India. It is tributary of Purna River, which is major tributary of Tapti River."
Description
"It rises in the Gawilgarh hills of eastern Satpura Range in Amravati District of Maharashtra state, and flows southward, draining Amravati, Akola and Buldhana region before emptying into the Purna River in Buldhana District of Maharashtra."
There is a dam on the river Wan Dam at Wari in Akola.
"The Mangla Gauri temple in Gaya, Bihar, India has been mentioned in Padma Purana, Vayu Purana and Agni Purana and in other scriptures and tantric works. This temple is among the eighteen maha shaktipeeth. The present temple dates back to 15th century. The shrine is dedicated to Shakti or the mother Goddess in the predominantly Vaishnavite pilgrimage center of Gaya. Mangalagauri is worshiped as the Goddess of benevolence. This temple constitutes an Upa-Shakti Pitha — where it is believed that a part of the body of Shakti fell according to mythology. Here Shakti is worshiped in the form of a breast, a symbol of nourishment. It is believed that whoever comes to maa durga with his wishes and prayers, returns successfully with all of prayers and wishes come true."
The temple is facing east and is built on top of the Mangalagauri hill. A flight of steps and a motorable road lead to it. The sanctum houses the symbol of the Goddess and it has some finely carved ancient relief sculptures. A small hall or mandap stands in front of the temple. The courtyard houses a fire pit for the home.
"There are two minor shrines dedicated to Shiva and images of Mahishasura Mardini, Durga and Dakshina Kali."
"MH SH 194 or Maharashtra State Highway 194 runs in Buldhana, Akola and Amravati Districts."
"It starts from Madhya Pradesh and has a route as Dolarkheda - Ichhapur. It enters Buldhana District and passes through Karanwadi - Khandvi - Asalgaon - Wadi Kh - Jalgaon Jamod on MH SH 195 - Jamod - Karmoda - Ladnapur - Tunki on MH SH 173 and Sonala. It crosses the Vaan River and enters into Akola District at Warkhed, then passes through as - Saundala - Hiwarkhed - Adgaon - Akot along the foothills of Satpuda hills, moves towards the plains in Amravati District as Sawara - Daryapur - Kholapur - Dhabhori - Valgaon - Revsa and finally joins Hajira - Kolkata National Highway 6 at Nandgaon.[1][2]"
State Highway 194 (Maharashtra)
MH SH 195 or Maharashtra State Highway 195 runs in Buldhana and Akola Districts in India.
"It is a road which connects Burhanpur (MP) from one end. It starts from MP - Maharashtra border, takes route as in Buldhana district as Umapur - Rasulpur - Jalgaon Jamod where it briefly merges with MH SH 194. It continues east as Kherda Bk - Sangrampur - Warwat Bakal, where it crosses MH SH 173 and goes eastward as - Salabad - Kakanwada Bk cross Vaan River. It enters Akola district and becomes Malegaon Bazar - Telhara - Ghodegaon - Pathardi - Mundgaon, finally joining MH SH 204 at Warula between Deori and Akot."
"Malegaon Bazar is a village, in Telhara tehsil of Akola district, Maharashtra State, India."
"It is located on MH State Highway 195 connecting Jalgaon Jamod - Sangrampur - - Warwat Bakal, Kakanwada on east side and on west side Telhara - Warula on MH SH 24."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Malegaon Bazar had a population of 1410."
Description
"The town post office Postal Index Number ( PIN code) is 444108 and PIN is shared with Telhara, Belkhed, Panchagavan post offices.[2]"
"Nearby towns are Sonala, Akot, Sangrampur, Jalgaon Jamod, Telhara, Shegaon"
"Digambara Jaina Temple is a Jain temple in Bhubaneswar, in the state of Odisha, India. The temple is on the top of Khandagiri hill. This hill is honeycombed with a series of rock-cut Jaina caves, commissioned by King Kharavela in 1st century BCE. The rock-cut caves are protected by Archaeological Survey of India. The enshrining deities are a series of Jaina tirthankara images."
Ownership
"The temple is maintained by the Bengal, Bihar and Odisha Digambara Jaina Tirthankara Committee. Bimala Devi Jain is the local caretaker."
Age
The architecture of the temple suggest that it was built out of materials from an earlier temple. The new temple was built in the 19th century CE.
Significance
Local legends ascribe the temple to Mahameghabahana Kharavela of 1st century BCE. This legend is not supported by the architectural features.
Physical description
"The temple, which faces east, is next to the Rushavanath temple in the south at a distance of 3.50 metres, a northern compound wall at a distance of 2.50 metres and western compound wall at a distance of 11.50 metres."
"Architectural features (Plan and Elevation): The temple stands on a platform that measures 16.00 metres in length by 9.50 metres in width with a height of 1.62 metres. On plan, the temple has a vimana and a jagamohana. The vimana measures 8.25 square metres and jagamohana measures 6.40 metres in length and 9.40 metres in breadth. This temple is triratha on plan. It is distinguished by central raha and kanika pagas on either sides. On elevation, the vimana is pidha deula that measures 5.80 metres in height from pabhaga to mastaka. The temple has panchanga bada. From bottom to top the temple has a pabhaga, talajangha, bandhana, upara jangha, baranda, gandi and mastaka. The pabhaga measures 0.47 metres, talajangha 0.42 metres, bandhana 0.16 metres, upara jangha 0.40 metres and baranda 0.45 metres. The gandi measures 1.80 meters with seven receding tiers arranged in two sets (potala); lower potala has four tiers and upper potala with three tiers and mastaka measures 2.10 metres."
Building material: Sandstone Construction techniques: Dry masonry Style: Kalingan
"Digambara Jaina Temple, Khandagiri"
Purvesvara Siva Temple Purvesvara Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′22″N 85°50′29″E﻿ / ﻿20.23944°N 85.84139°E﻿ / 20.23944; 85.84139Coordinates: 20°14′22″N 85°50′29″E﻿ / ﻿20.23944°N 85.84139°E﻿ / 20.23944; 85.84139 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 18 m (59 ft) Culture Primary deity Siva lingam Architecture Architectural styles kalingan Kalinga Architecture History and governance Date built 13th-14th century AD
"Purvesvara Siva Temple is located in Kancha Sahi, in the Old Town of Bhubaneswar. It was built in 13th century AD. It is a living temple and now under the care of Purvesvara Temple Development Association."
"It is 300 metres east of Lingaraja temple on the left side of the road leading to Garej chowk. The temple faces west. According to local tradition, the presiding deity is known as Purvesvara, as it is situated east of Lingaraja Temple. Other temples in the three directions are Uttartesvara (north), Barunesvara (south) and Paschimesvara (west)."
"The enshrining deity is a broken Lingam within a circular Yonipitha at the centre of the sanctum, which is 1.07 metres below the present ground level. Vimana is not ascertained due to the absence of superstructure; jagamohana is in pidha order. It was built in the mature phase of Orissa temple building. Various rituals are observed here such as Sivaratri, Sankranti and Rudraviseka."
"The temple measures 15.00 metres in length and 7.20 metres in width. The vimana and jagamohana measures 6.95 square metres and 7.20 square metres respectively. The ganthiala measures 0.85 metres in length. The cella measures 3.32 square metres. The sanctum is 1.07 metres below the present floor level of the jagamohana. The pabhaga has five base mouldings — khura, kumbha, pata, kani and basanta — measuring 1.16 metres in height."
Mangalesvara Siva Temple Mangalesvara Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′38″N 85°50′38″E﻿ / ﻿20.24389°N 85.84389°E﻿ / 20.24389; 85.84389Coordinates: 20°14′38″N 85°50′38″E﻿ / ﻿20.24389°N 85.84389°E﻿ / 20.24389; 85.84389 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 14 m (46 ft) Culture Primary deity lord Siva Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 14th century A.D.
"Mangalesvara Siva Temple is a Hindu temple located in Bhubaneswar, Orissa, India. It is located at Lat- 20◦ 14’ 38"" N., Long- 85◦ 50’ 38"" E., and at an elevation of 45 ft."
The temple is located in the precinct of the Papanasini River and on the southern embankment. The temple faces east and the enshrined deity is a circular yonipitha. The Lingam is absent. The temple is 1.60 metres below the present street level.
The temple is public property. Taranisen Batu is the priest of this temple and its architectural features suggest that it was built in the 14th century AD.
Architecture
It is a Precinct and the typology is rekha and pidha. Earlier it was used for worshipping but now it is a living temple.
Tirthesvara Siva temple Tirthesvara Siva temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′36″N 85°50′10″E﻿ / ﻿20.24333°N 85.83611°E﻿ / 20.24333; 85.83611Coordinates: 20°14′36″N 85°50′10″E﻿ / ﻿20.24333°N 85.83611°E﻿ / 20.24333; 85.83611 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 26 m (85 ft) Culture Primary deity lord Siva Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 14th century A.D.
"The Tirthesvara Siva temple is a Hindu template located in Bhubaneswar, the capital of Orissa, India."
"The Tirthesvara Siva temple is located in 20◦ latitude and 14’ 36""N, 85◦ longitude and 50’ 10""E, in an elevation of-85feet."
"It is located in Talabazar road, Old Town, Bhubaneswar. It is situated on the left side of road leading from Bindusagar to Lingaraja temple. The temple is facing towards west. The enshrining deity is a Siva lingam within a circular Yonipitha which is located at a depth of 0.94 metres below the door level. It is a living temple."
The architectural features of the temple resembles with the Ganga period so it is believed that it was established in the 14th century A.D.
Significance
"It has cultural significance like Various religious functions like Sankrant i, Shiva chatrudarshi, Samabar jalabhisekha, Dahana- chori are observed."
Devasabha Temple Devasabha Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′15″N 85°50′7″E﻿ / ﻿20.23750°N 85.83528°E﻿ / 20.23750; 85.83528Coordinates: 20°14′15″N 85°50′7″E﻿ / ﻿20.23750°N 85.83528°E﻿ / 20.23750; 85.83528 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 26 m (85 ft) Culture Primary deity Mahishamardini Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan History and governance Date built 18th century A.D.
"Devasabha Temple is located in the Kharakhia Vaidyanath temple precinct, Old Town area of Bhubaneswar. This is an abandoned temple and is facing towards the east. There is no deity inside the cella. As per the locals, the temple is the assembly of all gods and goddess for which it is known as Devasabha."
The temple is dated back to 14th century A.D with Rekha deul topology. It is in the southwest corner of Kharakhia Vaidyanatha precinct; 5.00 metres from the southern and western compound wall. The temple is facing east. It stands on a low and square platform measuring 5.50 square metres with a height of 0.60 metres.
"Karun Nair India (കരുൺ നായർ) Personal information Full name Karun Kaladharan Nair Born (1991-12-06) 6 December 1991 Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India Batting style Right-handed Bowling style Right-arm offbreak Role Batsman International information National side India Test debut (cap 287) 26 November 2016 v England ODI debut (cap 212) June 11 2016 v Zimbabwe Last ODI June 13, 2016 v Zimbabwe Domestic team information Years Team 2012–present Karnataka 2012–2013 Royal Challengers Bangalore 2014–2015 Rajasthan Royals 2016–present Delhi Daredevils Career statistics Competition FC List A T20 Test Matches 32 41 64 1 Runs scored 2481 1176 1189 4 Batting average 52.78 40.89 23.58 4.00 100s/50s 7/10 1/8 0/8 0/0 Top score 328 120 83* 4 Balls bowled 777 576 48 0 Wickets 8 10 2 0 Bowling average 52.62 46.60 27.50 n/a 5 wickets in innings 0 0 0 n/a 10 wickets in match 0 n/a n/a n/a Best bowling 2/11 2/16 1/3 n/a Catches/stumpings 12/0 8/0 8/0 0/0 Source: Cricinfo, 06 june 2016"
"Karun Kaladharan Nair (Malayalam : കരുൺ നായർ) (born 6 December 1991) is an Indian cricketer from Kerala who plays for Karnataka and Indian Cricket Team. He is a right-hand batsman and off break bowler. He was a member of Royal Challengers Bangalore squad in 2013 Indian Premier League. In the 2014 IPL auction, he was signed-up by the Rajasthan Royals. In 2016 IPL Auction, he was signed up by the Delhi Daredevils selling for Rs 4 crore."
"He has represented India, Delhi Daredevils, India A, India Under-19s, Karnataka, Karnataka State Cricket Association Colts XI, Kerala State Cricket Association XI, Karnataka Under-15s, Karnataka Under-19s, Mangalore United, Rajasthan Royals, Royal Challengers Bangalore, South Zone."
"Karun Nair was born to Kaladharan Nair and Prema Nair, a malayali couple . In July 2016, six people drowned and a few others were reported missing when a boat with more than a hundred people on board capsized in a river in Kerala. Karun Nair was on that boat, taking part in a temple festival with his family as thanksgiving for making his ODI debut. Nair was one of the survivors - he had to swim some distance before being rescued by a group of locals. [1]"
"Karun Nair caught everybody’s attention with his stellar performances in his debut season in the Ranji Trophy for Karnataka. Nair played a key part of their title winning season in 2013/14 with 3 consecutive centuries in their final league game v Delhi, the Quarter Final vs UP & in the semis v Punjab to take the team into the Final, where they eventually beat Maharashtra to win the Title. Karnataka went to win the Title again in 2014/15 and with 709 runs in their 10 games. Karun along with Robin Uthappa and KL Rahul were the fulcrum of the Batting lineup."
"Karun has been part of three teams in the IPL – RCB, RR & DD He was a part of the RCB in his debut season in 2013 where he played just 2 game. Karun’s debut Ranji season was after the 2013 IPL, and in the 2014 auctions Rajasthan Royals picked the youngster as a part of their squad. Backed by the mentor Dravid, Nair got a long run playing 11 games in the 2014 IPL, where the youngster impressed everyone with his performances. Nair scored 330 with 3 50s – the best of the lot coming against his new team, the daredevils. Nair scored 73* opening the batting and anchored the innings with the team chasing down the target of 153 with 9 balls to spare."
Nair made his One Day International (ODI) debut against Zimbabwe at Harare Sports Club on 11 June 2016.[2]
"On 26 November 2016, He made his Test debut against England at Mohali.[3]"
"Jaydev Unadkat Personal information Full name Jaydev Dipakbhai Unadkat Born (1991-10-18) 18 October 1991 Jaysingpur, Maharashtra, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Left arm fast-medium Role Bowler International information National side India Only Test (cap 267) 16 December 2010 v South Africa ODI debut (cap 197) 24 July 2013 v Zimbabwe Last ODI 21 November 2013 v West Indies Domestic team information Years Team 2010–present Saurashtra 2010–2012 Kolkata Knight Riders 2013 Royal Challengers Bangalore 2014–2015 Delhi Daredevils 2016-present Kolkata Knight Riders Career statistics Competition Test ODI FC LA Matches 1 7 37 49 Runs scored 2 – 305 66 Batting average 2.00 – 11.29 6.60 100s/50s 0/0 –/– 0/0 0/0 Top score 1* – 31* 15 Balls bowled 156 312 6,937 2,584 Wickets 0 8 107 71 Bowling average – 26.12 32.23 30.07 5 wickets in innings – 0 5 1 10 wickets in match – n/a 1 n/a Best bowling – 4/41 7/41 5/55 Catches/stumpings 0/– 0/– 10/– 12/– Source: ESPNcricinfo, 2 May 2014"
"Jaydev Dipakbhai Unadkat [1] (born 18 October 1991, Porbandar, Gujarat, is an Indian cricketer. He plays for Kolkata Knight Riders,[2] and has also played the Under-19 Cricket World Cup."
"Unadkat was born in Porbandar, Gujarat on 18 October 1991. Unadkat attended St. Mary's School, Porbandar as well as completed School in 2009 [3]"
On the second day of his playing against the Rajasthan Royals in the IPL he took three wickets and did some impressive fielding. His performance on this day brought him the man of the match trophy. He has played 3 matches for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the Indian Premier League. Unadkat's consistent performance helped him enter the Indian team. He was also selected for the test against Australia.He is an aggressive bowler as well as a fielder. When he played for KKR he was coached by Pakistani legend Wasim Akram who described him as an exciting prospect for the future.
"He debuted for India against South Africa on 16 December 2010 for the 1st Test at Centurion. He was brought in place of Zaheer Khan who sat out because of injury . however, He took no wickets in this match."
"After his stint with Kolkata Knight Riders, he was picked up by the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Player Auction for IPL-6 as one of the costliest Indian buys for $525,000.[4] During IPL 6, his impressive string of performances earned him great praise from RCB coach Ray Jennings, who said that Unadkat would make a big comeback into the Indian Team."
"On 12 February 2014, he was picked up by the Delhi Daredevils with a bid of 2.80 crores in the IPL-7 auction. He took 8 wickets in the 5 match ODI series vs Zimbabwe with best figures 4-41, but Unadkat has failed to impress against big teams as he went wicketless in ODIs vs Australia and West Indies."
References
"Barinder Sran Personal information Full name Barinder Balbir Singh Sran Born (1992-12-10) 10 December 1992 Sirsa, Haryana, India Nickname Barry[1] Height 6 ft 3[2] in (1.91 m) Batting style Left-handed Bowling style Left-arm fast-medium Role Bowler International information National side India ODI debut (cap 207) 12 January 2016 v Australia ODI shirt no. 51 Domestic team information Years Team 2011/12–present Punjab 2015 Rajasthan Royals (squad no. 51) 2016–present Sunrisers Hyderabad (#51) Career statistics Competition ODI FC LA T20 Matches 6 11 9 10 Runs scored – 155 14 17 Batting average – 19.37 4.66 17.00 100s/50s –/– 0/0 0/0 0/0 Top score – 33 9 9* Balls bowled 1817 497 174 Wickets 7 32 19 8 Bowling average 18.66 34.06 26.94 27.12 5 wickets in innings 0 1 0 0 10 wickets in match n/a 0 n/a n/a Best bowling 3/56 6/61 4/60 3/26 Catches/stumpings 1/– 1/– 2/– 1/– Source: Cricinfo, 13 January 2016"
"Barinder Balbir Singh Sran (born 10 December 1992) is an Indian international cricketer. He is a left-arm medium-fast bowler who plays for Punjab in domestic cricket and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL. He was a member of the Rajasthan Royals squad in the 2015 Indian Premier League.[3][4] He made his One Day International debut for India against Australia on 12 January 2016.[5] He made his Twenty20 International (T20I) debut against Zimbabwe at Harare Sports Club on 20 June 2016 and took 4/10, which are the best bowling figures by an Indian debutant in T20I cricket.[6]"
Domestic career
"After switching from boxing to cricket at the age of 17, Sran attended trials for Kings XI Punjab but was not selected. He received cricket training at an academy in Chandigarh, and then took part in the Gatorade Speedster, winning the North India leg. He won the Under-19 leg of Speedster, following which he was sent to Dubai to train at the ICC academy."
"Having played only eight List A matches, Sran was picked in the Indian ODI squad for the Australian tour in January 2016. He made his debut in the first ODI at Perth and took 3 for 56, dismissing Aaron Finch, David Warner and Steven Smith.[5] He was then picked in the Indian ODI and T20 squad for the Indian cricket team's tour to Zimbabwe."
International awards
Twenty20 Internationals
# Series Series Performance Result 1 Zimbabwe vs India in Zimbabwe 8-1-41-6 ; DNB.  India won the series 2-1.[9]
"No. Opponent Venue Date Match Performance Result 1 Zimbabwe Harare Sports Club, Harare 20 June 2016 4-0-10-4 ; DNB  India won by 10 wickets.[10]"
Barinder Sran
"Sanju Samson Personal information Full name Sanju Viswanath Samson Born (1994-11-11) 11 November 1994 Trivandrum, Kerala, India Batting style Right-hand bat Role Wicket-keeper International information National side India T20I debut (cap 55) 19 July 2015 v Zimbabwe T20I shirt no. 7 Domestic team information Years Team 2011-present Kerala 2012 Kolkata Knight Riders 2013-2015 Rajasthan Royals 2016-present Delhi Daredevils Career statistics Competition FC List A T20 T20I Matches 21 29 48 1 Runs scored 1386 1004 1016 19 Batting average 44.70 32.30 24.78 19 100s/50s 5/4 -/4 -/7 -/- Top score 211 85* 76 19 Balls bowled - - - - Wickets - - - - Bowling average - - - - 5 wickets in innings -  – - - 10 wickets in match  – - - - Best bowling - - - - Catches/stumpings 18/5 30/5 32/4 1/- Source: , 26 February 2015"
"Sanju Viswanath Samson (Malayalam: സഞ്ജു വിശ്വനാഥ് സാംസൺ) (born 11 November 1994), is an Indian cricketer who plays for the Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League (IPL). He is a wicket-keeper batsman. He made his Twenty20 International debut for India against Zimbabwe on 19 July 2015.He is the youngest to score 1000 runs in IPL,Two Double Tons in Ranji Trophy & also the youngest to captain a Ranji trophy side Kerala. [1]"
"He hails from Trivandrum, Kerala and represents the Kerala cricket team in domestic cricket. He is the youngest player to score a half-century in the IPL and Champions League Twenty20. He achieved this on 29 April 2013 in the match between Rajasthan Royals and Royal Challengers Bangalore at the age of 18.[2][3] Samson was adjudged as the ""Best Young Player of the Season"" in the 2013 IPL through an official poll.[4] He was appointed the Vice-captain of the India U-19 team for the 2013 Top End Under-19 Series in Australia.[5][6] He has been included in the Indian squad for the limited overs matches in India tour of England 2014.[7]"
"Samson was born on 11 November 1994 in Trivandrum, India to Lijy and Samson Viswanath. His father Samson Viswanath[8] was formerly a police constable in Delhi Police. His father has played a key role in shaping up Sanju's cricket career. Sanju attended Rosary Senior Secondary School, Delhi and graduated high school from St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.[9] He is pursuing his bachelor of arts degree at Mar Ivanios College, Trivandrum."
International Career
"On 5 August 2014, Samson was selected to the 17-man squad to play against England in 5 ODIs and a Twenty20.[20] However, he did not make it to the final team on any of the matches and remained a backup keeper to MS Dhoni.He made his international debut against Zimbabwe cricket team"
"Hrishikesh Hemant Kanitkar  pronunciation  (born November 14, 1974 in Pune, Maharashtra) is an Indian cricketer."
"He is a left-handed batsman and a right-arm offbreak bowler.[1] When he retired in 2015, he was one of only three batsmen to have scored 8000-plus runs in the Ranji Trophy and also only captain in the Ranji Trophy's history to lift the Elite and Plate league titles.[2][3]"
"In December 2012, he became the 27th cricketer to play 100 Ranji Trophy matches.[8][9][10]"
In July 2015 Kanitkar announced his retirement from cricket.[11]
"He is best remembered for hitting a four when India required 3 runs to win from 2 balls in the Silver Jubilee Independence Cup final at Dhaka, against Pakistan cricket team in fading light, to complete the Indian victory.[1] He played a few number of ODIs but scored only half-century in the format in his third innings against Australia cricket team in Kochi."
Coaching career
"In 2011, Kanitkar was appointed as assistant coach of Kochi Tuskers Kerala but walked out of the contract even before the IPL season began. This was due to disputes with the owners."
He is son of former Indian wicket-keeper Hemant Kanitkar who played in two Tests in 1974.
"Ramesh Rajaram Powar  pronunciation  (born 20 May 1978 in Nagpur, Maharashtra, India) is a former Indian cricketer."
He is a former off spinner who played for the Indian ODI team. Powar was selected in 2000 for the first intake of the National Cricket Academy in Bangalore.[1]He becomes the inspiration of new 19 year old Bangladesh bowling sensation Mehedi Hassan Miraz. Ramesh Powar is the inspiration of new Bangladesh team offspiner Mehedi Hasan Miraz
Playing Career
Powar was a consistent performer in domestic cricket for the many seasons and was crucial to Mumbai cricket team's Ranji Trophy success in the 2002-03 season.
Personal Life
"He is an alumnus of Ruparel College of Science, Commerce and Arts in Matunga, Mumbai. His brother Kiran Powar also played cricket and is current under-19s coach of Vidarbha cricket team.[5]"
"Bhargav Bhatt Personal information Full name Bhargav Ashok Bhatt Born (1990-05-13) 13 May 1990 Vadodara, Gujarat, India Batting style Left-handed Bowling style Slow left-arm orthodox Role Bowler Domestic team information Years Team 2009/10–present Baroda 2011–present Kings XI Punjab Career statistics Competition FC List A T20 Matches 15 10 23 Runs scored 92 31 10 Batting average 6.13 7.75 5.00 100s/50s 0/0 0/0 0/0 Top score 18 12 6* Balls bowled 3037 490 428 Wickets 60 11 20 Bowling average 26.31 30.81 29.75 5 wickets in innings 4 0 0 10 wickets in match 1 n/a n/a Best bowling 7/127 3/49 4/22 Catches/stumpings 6/– 7/– 7/- Source: Cricinfo, 18 May 2012"
"Bhargav Bhatt (born 13 May 1990 in Vadodara, Gujarat, India) is a cricketer who plays for Baroda in Indian domestic cricket.[1] He is a slow left-arm orthodox bowler. He also plays for Kings XI Punjab in Indian Premier League.[2]"
"Bhatt, in his debut first-class season, picked up 47 wickets from 9 matches to become the highest wicket-taker of the season.[3] His impressive showing was awarded, as he got an IPL contract with the Kings XI Punjab franchise in 2011. He continued his good run in the Twenty20 format too with economic bowling. He had figures of 2.5-0-22-4 against Mumbai Indians for which he earned the Man-of-the-Match award.[4]"
"Shardul Thakur Personal information Full name Shardul Narendra Thakur Born (1991-10-16) 16 October 1991 Palghar, Maharashtra Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm medium Role Bowler Domestic team information Years Team 2012–present Mumbai 2015 Kings XI Punjab Source: Cricinfo, 24 June, 2016"
"Shardul Thakur (born 16 October 1991 in Palghar, Maharashtra) is an Indian cricketer who plays first-class cricket for Mumbai.[1] He is currently a member of the Kings XI Punjab, Mumbai cricket team as well as India A cricket team."
Domestic Career
"He made his First-class debut against Rajasthan cricket team at Jaipur in November, 2012. He didn't have a good start to his career as he took four wickets at a bowling average of 82.0 from his first four games. In 2012–13 Ranji season, he took 27 wickets at 26.25 from six games, with one five-wicket haul. In the 2013-14 Ranji season, he took 48 wickets at 20.81 from ten games with five five-wicket hauls.[2]"
"In 2015-16 Ranji Trophy final, he took eight wickets against the Saurashtra cricket team and led Mumbai cricket team to win its 41st Ranji Trophy title.[3]"
He named in India's 16 men squad for India's Test tour of West Indies in 2016. [4]
"Paul Valthaty Personal information Full name Paul Chandrashekar Valthaty Born (1983-12-07) 7 December 1983 Mumbai, Maharashtra, India Domestic team information Years Team 2002 India Under-19 2009–2010 Rajasthan Royals 2011–2013 Kings XI Punjab Career statistics Competition First Class List A T20 Matches 3 2 25 Runs scored 60 52 742 Batting average 15.00 26.00 28.53 100s/50s 0/0 0/0 1/3 Top score 29 36 120* Balls bowled 18 18 241 Wickets 0 0 11 Bowling average  –  – 29.63 5 wickets in innings 0 0 0 10 wickets in match n/a n/a n/a Best bowling  –  – 4/29 Catches/stumpings 1/– 1/– 5/– Source: Cricinfo, 5 December 2011"
Paul Chandrashekar Valthaty[1] (born 7 December 1983) is an Indian cricketer who played for Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League.
Early years and personal life
Valthaty was born and raised in the Borivali district of Mumbai.[2]
Valthaty was trained in Dilip Vengsarkar academy in Mumbai. He was then recommended by Vengsarkar to Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) president Mr. Chamundeswarnath.
Career
"Valthaty had a nondescript career till then, since making his way up the levels of age group cricket in Mumbai during the late 1990s.[3] He made India's Under-19 squad to the 2002 World Cup in New Zealand[4] with the likes of Irfan Pathan and Parthiv Patel where an injury to his eye in the game against Bangladesh halted his development. He couldn't make the breakthrough into senior cricket for years, and got just one opportunity for Mumbai, a one-dayer in 2006. There was no high-profile cricket for him for another few years, till Rajasthan Royals punted on him in the 2009 season, where he played a couple of matches. That earned him a place in Mumbai's Twenty20 side, and he turned in a few powerful performances for them, which led to a contract with Kings XI Punjab in 2011."
Indian Premier League
"Paul Valthaty was picked by Kings XI Punjab as a backup to expensive international buys at a player auction in January.[5] He was the opening batsmen for Kings XI Punjab, had an outstanding game in the 2011 Indian Premier League against the reigning champions Chennai Super Kings. Valthaty raced to 120 not out in 63 balls as the Kings XI Punjab chased down the mammoth 189-run target with six wickets and five balls to spare at Mohali. It was the first hundred of IPL 2011 and 13th overall and this century is his first fastest century.[6] It remains the 8th highest IPL score ever, after, Chris Gayle's 175* & 128, Brendon McCullum's 158*, AB de Villiers's 133* and 129*, Murali Vijay's 127 and Virender Sehwag's 122. In his next game Paul scored a fabulous 75 of 47 deliveries hitting 5 sixes and 8 fours after achieving the best bowling figures for any Kings XI Punjab bowler with 4 for 29. His all round performance resulted in a big win for his team.[7] He played a pacey innings in his next match scoring 46 off just 31[8] deliveries with three classic sixes. With his initial blitzkrieg, the team crossed the fifty in just three overs, a record in IPL history which was later beaten by the Royal Challengers Bangalore in their second match against the Kochi Tuskers Kerala in the same season."
"Ishwar Pandey Personal information Full name Ishwar Chand Pandey Born (1989-08-15) 15 August 1989 Rewa, Madhya Pradesh[1] Batting style Right-handed Bowling style Right-arm medium-fast Role Bowler Domestic team information Years Team 2010–present Madhya Pradesh 2013 Pune Warriors 2014–2015 Chennai Super Kings (#16) 2016-present Rising Pune Supergiants Career statistics Competition FC List A T20 Matches 31 16 6 Runs scored 296 16 25 Batting average 10.57 3.20 8.33 100s/50s 0/0 0/0 0/0 Top score 39 9 17* Balls bowled 6653 838 114 Wickets 131 22 5 Bowling average 24.43 30.04 32.00 5 wickets in innings 8 0 0 10 wickets in match 2 n/a n/a Best bowling 8/84 4/44 2/26 Catches/stumpings 9/– 5/– 0/- Source: Cricinfo, 31 December 2013"
Ishwar Chand Pandey (born 15 August 1989) is an Indian cricketer who plays for Madhya Pradesh.[2] He is a right-arm medium-fast bowler who was the leading wicket-taker of the 2012-13 Ranji Trophy.[3] He has played for India A and was selected in the Indian Test and ODI squads for the New Zealand tour of 2014. He was bought by the Chennai Super Kings in 2014 IPL auction for Rs 1.5 crores. Currently he is representing Pune Supergiants in 2016 edition of IPL[4][5]
"Pandey was born in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh. His father is retired Junior officer of the Indian Army. He has received training from MRF Pace Academy in Chennai.[6]"
"Pandey made his first-class debut for Madhya Pradesh against Goa in November 2010. He played three matches in that season's Ranji Trophy, taking 9 wickets at an average of 27.[7] In the 2011/12 season of Ranji Trophy, Pandey picked 25 wickets from six games at an average of 29 and a best of 6/31.[8] In the following Ranji season, Pandey topped the wicket-takers' list with 48 wickets from eight matches, averaging just over 21, with 5 five-wicket hauls and a ten-wicket haul.[9] In a match against Bengal that season, Pandey single-handedly took Madhya Pradesh to an improbable win with figures of 5/87 and 5/58.[10] Following this, Pandey was selected for the India A squad to play the touring England team, and the Rest of India squad against Mumbai for the 2013 Irani Cup. He was signed up by Pune Warriors for the 2013 season of the Indian Premier League.[11]"
"In August 2013, playing for India A, Pandey had figures of 4/46 and 3/25 in the first unofficial test at Rustenburg against South Africa A as India A registered an innings victory.[12] In the second unofficial test which South Africa A won, he had figures of 3/67 and 1/16.[13] He finished as the joint highest wicket-taker of the series.He is regularJ member of CSK in IPL 2015."
In January 2016 he took a hat-trick in the Twenty20 match between Madhya Pradesh and Andhra in the 2015–16 Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy.[14]
"Jalaj Saxena Personal information Full name Jalaj Sahai Saxena Born (1986-12-15) 15 December 1986 Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right arm off break Role All-rounder Relations Jatin Saxena (brother) Domestic team information Years Team 2005–present Madhya Pradesh 2013–2014 Mumbai Indians 2015 Royal Challengers Bangalore Career statistics Competition FC List A T20 Matches 81 58 40 Runs scored 4510 1175 443 Batting average 38.22 23.97 14.76 100s/50s 11/22 2/5 0/1 Top score 194 133 55* Balls bowled 12125 2499 587 Wickets 191 67 31 Bowling average 30.70 28.11 22.45 5 wickets in innings 11 0 1 10 wickets in match 3 n/a n/a Best bowling 8/58 4/40 5/16 Catches/stumpings 28/- 6/- 10/- Source: ESPNcricinfo, 4 January 2016"
"Jalaj Sahai Saxena (born 15 December 1986) is an Indian cricketer who plays as an all-rounder for Madhya Pradesh. A right-hand batsman and off break bowler, he has also represented the India A and Central Zone cricket team."
Saxena has batted at various positions but usually opens the batting. In 2015 he registered the second-best bowling figures in the history of Ranji Trophy. He has emerged as one of the best all-rounders in domestic cricket and was awarded the Lala Amarnath Award for best all-rounder by BCCI in January 2016.[1] His brother Jatin Saxena is also a first-class cricketer who plays for Madhya Pradesh.
Domestic career
"Saxena scored 769 runs at an average of 69.90 in the 2012–13 Ranji Trophy including two centuries.[2] He was included in the India A team that played against the touring Australian team in February 2013, and scored 30 not out and took five wickets including the wickets of Test batsmen Phillip Hughes, Usman Khawaja and Ed Cowan.[3] Against New Zealand A in August 2013, he had figures of 6/103.[4]"
"In the 2013–14 Ranji Trophy, Saxena scored 545 runs at an average of 41.92 with a top-score of 194, and took 35 wickets at an average of 19 including three five-wicket hauls and two ten-wicket hauls to finish among the top wicket-takers of the season.[5][6]"
"In the 2014–15 season, Saxena hit three centuries and amassed 768 runs at an average of 45.17.[7] In a match against Tamil Nadu, he scored 144 and then took 4/74 and 3/109 to win the man of the match.[8] He was part of the Central Zone team that won the 2014–15 Duleep Trophy in which he scored 110 in the semifinal against North Zone and 71 in the final against South Zone, and also picked wickets."
"Saxena was signed up by the IPL franchise Mumbai Indians in 2013. He remained with the Mumbai Indians until the 2014 season. At the 2015 IPL auction, he was bought by the Royal Challengers Bangalore for ₹10 lakh."
"Joginder Sharma Personal information Full name Joginder Singh Sharma Born (1983-10-23) 23 October 1983 mokhra,Rohtak, Haryana, India Height 1.78 m (5 ft 10 in) Batting style Right-handed Bowling style Right arm fast-medium Role All-rounder International information National side India ODI debut (cap 158) 23 December 2004 v Bangladesh Last ODI 24 January 2007 v West Indies T20I debut (cap 16) 19 September 2007 v England Last T20I 24 September 2007 v Pakistan Domestic team information Years Team 2002/03–present Haryana 2008–2012 Chennai Super Kings Career statistics Competition ODI FC LA T20I Matches 4 44 45 4 Runs scored 35 2043 522 – Batting average 35.00 30.49 18.64 – 100s/50s 0/0 4/9 0/0 –/– Top score 29* 139 44 – Balls bowled 150 8972 2018 87 Wickets 1 200 63 4 Bowling average 115.00 20.05 25.41 34.50 5 wickets in innings 0 14 0 0 10 wickets in match n/a 5 n/a n/a Best bowling 1/28 8/24 4/13 2/20 Catches/stumpings 3/– 4/– 9/– 2/– Source: CricketArchive, 20 September 2008"
"Joginder Sharma  pronunciation  (born 23 October 1983 in Rohtak, Haryana, India) is an Indian cricketer and police officer who made sporadic appearances for the Indian cricket team."
"A bowling all rounder, he is a right-handed batsman and a right-arm medium-fast bowler and captains his state, Haryana."
First class
"Sharma made his first-class debut for Haryana against Madhya Pradesh in the 2002/03 Ranji Trophy, hitting 81 before taking 11/84 to lead Haryana to a 103 run victory.[1] He had made his debut in the limited over domestic arena the season before.[2] Sharma finished his debut season with 24 wickets at 17.41 and 280 runs at 46.66[3][4] He followed this with 148 runs at 68.51 and 23 wickets at 23.39 in 2003/04 Ranji season.[5][6] He was selected for the North Zone team for the Duleep Trophy, and took 6/59 in a match against West Zone during the victorious campaign.[7]"
National attention
"Sharma gained national attention in a match for India A against the national team at Bangalore, when he dismissed Rahul Dravid, V. V. S. Laxman and Yuvraj Singh.[2][8] He also played for the Rest of India side, which defeated Mumbai in the Irani Trophy.[9]"
"Having scored two successive centuries, and securing a 14/116 in the 2004/05 Ranji Trophy against Vidarbha,[10] Sharma won his place in the Indian side for the Bangladesh tour. He had limited batting opportunities, scoring 34 in two brief knocks at the end of the innings without being dismissed, but his bowling was ineffective, taking 1/99, and was dropped after playing in that ODI series.[11] He ended the Ranji Trophy with 36 wickets, the second highest at 15.47 and 472 runs at 52.[12][13] In 2005/06, he topped the Duleep Trophy bowling averages.[14]"
"Sharma performed strongly in the 2006/07 Indian domestic season to bring himself into contention for national selection. His batting for North Zone in the Duleep Trophy yielded 421 runs in three matches, and he was subsequently the leading wicket-taker in the Ranji Trophy, taking 39 wickets in seven matches, as well as two ten-wicket hauls and a hat trick.[15] Despite being unable to prevent Haryana from being relegated to the Plate division, he was recalled in January 2007 to the team at the expense of Irfan Pathan for the ODI series against the West Indies.[15] He was selected for the second ODI in Cuttack, but after scoring 1 and failing to take a wicket,[11] Pathan was immediately recalled and Sharma dropped. Sharma was not named in the Indian squad for the 2007 Cricket World Cup."
"Ajay Sharma Personal information Full name Ajay Kumar Sharma Born (1964-04-03) 3 April 1964 Delhi, India Batting style Right-handed Bowling style Slow left-arm Role Batsman Relations Manan Sharma (son) International information National side India Only Test (cap 182) 11 January 1988 v West Indies ODI debut (cap 64) 2 January 1988 v West Indies Last ODI 16 November 1993 v West Indies Domestic team information Years Team 1984–2000 Delhi 2000–2001 Himachal Pradesh Career statistics Competition Test ODI FC LA Matches 1 31 129 113 Runs scored 53 424 10120 2814 Batting average 26.50 20.19 67.46 36.07 100s/50s 0/0 0/3 38/36 2/20 Top score 30 59* 259* 135* Balls bowled 24 1140 6438 3985 Wickets 0 15 87 108 Bowling average – 58.33 31.01 28.37 5 wickets in innings – 0 1 2 10 wickets in match – n/a 0 n/a Best bowling – 3/41 5/34 5/30 Catches/stumpings 1/– 6/– 94/– 43/– Source: CricketArchive, 14 December 2009"
"Ajay Kumar Sharma  pronunciation  (born 3 April 1964, in Delhi) is a former Indian cricketer."
"Sharma was a prolific run-maker in first-class cricket, mainly for Delhi, scoring over 10,000 runs at the high average of 67.46.[1] Given a minimum qualification of 50 innings, only three players (Sir Donald Bradman, Vijay Merchant and George Headley) have bettered this average in first-class cricket.[2]"
"In the Ranji Trophy, Sharma scored a record 31 centuries[3] and his batting average of approximately 80 in this competition is second only to Vijay Merchant.[4][5] In the 1996-97 season, he became only the third player to score over 1000 runs in a Ranji Trophy season. He played in six Ranji Trophy finals for Delhi scoring centuries in four of them, but only twice ended up on the winning side (1985–86 and 1991–92). Sharma also regularly represented North Zone in the Duleep Trophy."
International career
"Despite his domestic scoring record, Sharma only played one Test match for India - against the West Indies in January 1988.[6] He played 31 One Day Internationals for India from 1988 to 1993."
"In December 1988, he scored back-to-back fifties against New Zealand, but he did not reach those heights again except for a 59 not out (his highest ODI score) against Zimbabwe in March 1993.[7] He finished with 424 runs at a batting average of 20.19. Sharma also took 15 wickets using his left-arm spin with a best of 3/41 against Australia in October 1989.[8]"
Life ban
"In 2000, aged 36, his career ended when he received a life ban from cricket after he was implicated in a match-fixing scandal.[9][10]"
"In September 2014, Sharma was cleared from all charges related to match-fixing by Delhi district court and has asked the BCCI to allow him to take part in the board's activities and those of its associates.[11][12]"
"Mohit Sharma Personal information Full name Mohit Mahipal Sharma Born (1988-09-18) 18 September 1988 Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Haryana, India Batting style Right-handed Bowling style Right arm fast-medium Role Bowler International information National side India ODI debut (cap 199) 1 August 2013 v Zimbabwe Last ODI 18 June 2015 v Bangladesh ODI shirt no. 6 T20I debut (cap 47) 30 March 2014 v Australia Last T20I 7 September 2014 v England T20I shirt no. 18 Domestic team information Years Team 2011–present Haryana 2013–2015 Chennai Super Kings 2016 Kings XI Punjab Career statistics Competition ODI T20I FC LA Matches 21 4 24 40 Runs scored 31 0 354 128 Batting average 7.75 0 12.64 12.80 100s/50s 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 Top score 11 0 49 24 Balls bowled 893 66 4,135 1823 Wickets 24 3 85 44 Bowling average 32.16 34 22.82 33.00 5 wickets in innings 0 0 4 - 10 wickets in match 0 n/a 0 n/a Best bowling 4/22 1/11 5/45 4/22 Catches/stumpings 5/– 3/– 4/– 12/- Source: Cricinfo, 21 June 2015"
Mohit Mahipal Sharma (born 18 September 1988) is an Indian cricketer who plays for Haryana. He is a right-arm medium-fast bowler.
"Following his work with pace bowling coach Ian Pont, Sharma picked up 37 wickets from 7 games at an average of 23 in the 2012-13 Ranji Trophy. He was then contracted by the IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings for the 2013 season. He played 15 matches in 2013 Indian Premier League and took 23 wickets."
International Career
Sharma made his international debut for India in 4th ODI against Zimbabwe during India's tour of Zimbabwe. Sharma bowled an economical spell (2/26 in 10 overs) and took his first wicket in his fourth over dismissing Zimbabwe opening batsman Sikandar Raza. Sharma became the second Indian after Sandeep Patil to be adjudged man of the match on ODI debut.[1][2] Sharma made his T20I debut for India during the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 tournament in Bangladesh. His debut match was against Australia. He took one wicket when he bowled out Australian all-rounder Shane Watson. He is the Third Highest Wicket Taker for India in 2015 Cricket World Cup.He took wicket of Sachin Tendulkar in his final Ranji match
International Awards
"S No Opponent Venue Date Match Performance Result 1 Zimbabwe Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo 1 August 2013 10-3-26-2 ; DNB  India won by 9 wickets.[3]"
"Amit Mishra Personal information Full name Amit Mishra Born (1982-11-24) 24 November 1982 Delhi, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Leg break International information National side India Test debut (cap 259) 17 October 2008 v Australia Last Test 9 November 2016 v England ODI debut (cap 151) 13 April 2003 v South Africa Last ODI 29 October 2016 v New Zealand T20I debut (cap 33) 13 June 2010 v Zimbabwe Domestic team information Years Team 2000–present Haryana 2008–2010; 2015-present Delhi Daredevils 2011–2012 Deccan Chargers 2013–2014 Sunrisers Hyderabad Career statistics Competition Test ODI FC LA Matches 21 36 144 106 Runs scored 648 28 4,006 612 Batting average 21.60 4.80 22.13 13.02 100s/50s 0/4 0/0 1/16 0/1 Top score 84 14 202* 55 Balls bowled 4867 1648 29,208 5,534 Wickets 74 64 510 173 Bowling average 35.10 23.60 28.94 23.78 5 wickets in innings 1 2 21 4 10 wickets in match 0 n/a 1 n/a Best bowling 5/71 6/48 6/66 6/25 Catches/stumpings 8/– 2/– 74/– 29/– Source: Cricinfo, 5 June 2014"
"Amit Mishra  pronunciation  (born 24 November 1982) is an Indian cricketer. He is an attacking right-arm leg-break bowler and right-handed tail-ender batsman. He plays for Haryana in the domestic Ranji Trophy and currently appears for the T20 franchise Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League. In addition, he has represented India in Test, ODIs and T20s."
"Mishra was initially called into the Indian squad for a Test against the West Indies in 2002, but was not selected. He made his One Day International (ODI) debut against South Africa during the TVS Cup in 2003. He plays for Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League."
"Mishra made his Test cricket debut against Australia in the Second Test at Mohali (PCA ground) after captain and first-choice leg spinner Anil Kumble was injured. He took 5 wickets for 71 runs in Australia's first innings and then 2/35 in the second, making him the leading wicket-taker in the match as India proceeded to a decisive victory.[1] Despite this, Indian coach Gary Kirsten said that Mishra would be dropped if Kumble recovered for the Third Test. However, Harbhajan Singh was injured so Mishra retained his place when Kumble came in. Kumble was then injured during the Test and retired, leaving Mishra as India's first-choice Test leg spinner."
"Mishra was selected for the early-2009 Test tour of New Zealand, but India opted to field only one spinner, and he watched as Harbhajan performed the spin duties alone. Mishra played in the 2009 ICC Champions Trophy in South Africa. India's next Test was not until November 2009. Mishra took only one wicket in the high-scoring drawn First Test and he was dropped for the Second Test in favour of left arm orthodox spinner Pragyan Ojha, who retained his position for the Third Test as the second spinner."
"Mishra was recalled for the tour of Bangladesh and played in the First Test in Chittagong as the only spinner after Harbhajan suffered an injury. He made 50 in the second innings as a night-watchman and took seven wickets. However, he was once again dropped in the next Test for Ojha. At the start of the tour, Mishra played in two ODIs against Sri Lanka and Bangladesh in a triangular tournament after Harbhajan was rested for the final two round-robin matches. Later in the Indian cricket team in England in 2011 he got his highest score ever in the last test match of 84. He has been recalled for one day series against Zimbabwe July 2013. He won man of the match award for his 4/47 bowling against Zimbabwe in 3rd ODI played on 28 July 2013. Mishra managed to get most wickets by any bowler in a 5-match series or tournament against Zimbabwe July 2013. The spinner also equalled Indian bowling great Javagal Srinath's world record for the most wickets in a bilateral ODI series with 18 wickets. Srinath managed his feat in 7 matches so Mishra equaled the record in less matches."
Mishra bowled a fine spell for two wickets against Pakistan in the 6th match of Asia Cup on 2 February 2014. Mishra’s bowling figures of 2 for 28 from his 10 overs were the sixth best economical bowling figures in Asia Cup history (bowlers who have bowled a minimum of 10 overs are only considered).[2]
"Mishra was included in the squad for India's 2016 tour of West Indies. He played two tests and picked up six wickets, and three wickets in one of the two T20I games that followed, taking his career-best 3/24 in it. In New Zealand's 2016–17 tour of India, he was included in the ODI side. He took 15 wickets in the five games, which included 5/18 in the final game that helped India win the series 3–2, and was awarded the Player of the Series.[3]"
IPL career
Amit Mishra has been a consistent wicket-taker in all the five editions of the tournament. He has also made best useful contributions in the lower order with his timely cameos.
"On 17 April 2013 in season 6 of Indian Premier League (IPL 2013) he took a hat-trick playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad against Pune Warriors India and with this hat-trick, he became the first player in IPL history to take three hat-tricks. He has previously taken hat-trick in IPL 2008 playing for Delhi Daredevils against Deccan Chargers and then again in IPL 2011 playing for Deccan Chargers against Kings XI Punjab."
International records
Test 5 wicket hauls
# Figures Match Opponent Venue City Country Year 1 5/71 1  Australia PCA Stadium Mohali India 2008
ODI 5 wicket hauls
International Awards
One-Day International Cricket
Man of the Match awards
"S No Opponent Venue Date Match Performance Result 1 Zimbabwe Harare Sports Club, Harare 28 July 2013 10-0-47-4 ; DNB  India won by 7 wickets.[4] 2 Zimbabwe Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo 3 August 2013 8.5-0-48-6 ; DNB  India won by 7 wickets.[5] 3 New Zealand ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium, Visakhapatnam 29 October 2016 DNB ; 6-2-18-5  India won by 190 runs.[6]"
Player of the Series awards
S No Series Season Series Performance Result 1 New Zealand in India ODI series 2016/17 15 wickets with a one fifer. avg. 14.33  India won the series 3-2.[7]
Twenty20 International Cricket
Man of the Match Awards
# Series Season Match Performance Result 1 2014 ICC World Twenty20 13th match (IND vs PAK) in Bangladesh 2014 4-1-22-2 ; DNB  India won by 7 wickets.[8] 2 2014 ICC World Twenty20 17th match (IND vs WIN) in Bangladesh 2014 4-0-18-2 ; DNB  India won by 7 wickets.[9]
"Rahul Sharma ( Punjabi: ਰਾਹੁਲ ਸ਼ਰਮਾ Hindi: राहुल शर्मा) (born 30 November 1986 in Jalandhar, Punjab) is an Indian cricketer. He is primarily a right-handed legbreak and googly bowler. He has been a member of the Punjab cricket team since 2006. He came into the limelight due to his impressive bowling performances in IPL 2011 for Pune Warriors."
"Rahul started as a medium pacer but soon turned to leg spin on his coach Devender Arora's insistence (Devender Arora is also Harbhajan Singh's coach).[1] He made his debut in first class cricket on 25 December 2006 for Punjab against Rajasthan, but had to wait till 2009 to play again. In 2009-10 season of the Ranji Trophy, he took 13 wickets in seven first class games. Rahul played only one Ranji match in the 2010-11 season."
Following is the list of rivers of Odisha:-
Rivers
Baitarani River Bhargavi River Bhede River Brahmani River Budhabalanga River Chitroptala river Daya River Devi River Dhamra River Ib River Kadua River Kathajodi River Kharkai River Koina River Kuakhai River Kushabhadra River Mahanadi Malaguni River Nagavali River Ong River River Kolab Rushikulya Sabari River Sankh River Sileru River South Karo River South Koel River Subarnarekha River Surubalijora Tel River Telen River Vaitarani River Vamsadhara River
"Kadua river is located in Odisha state, India, and formed by the confluence of two streams at Charigan village. It runs for a distance of 22 miles draining the area between Prachi and Kushabadra rivers before joining the Bay of Bengal.[1][2]"
Kadua River
Devi river is one of the principal distributaries of Mahanadhi. It flows through Jagatsinghpur district and Puri district across Odisha state in India and joins Bay of Bengal.
"The river forms the final part of a great network of Mahanadi river. Katjuri (Kathajodi) river is the main southern distributary of Mahanadi river branching off at Cuttack, Odisha.[1] Katjuri river later acquires the name Devi as it flows further east. The river flows through Alipingal, Macchagaon and Naugaon blocks in Jagatsinghpur district and Astaranga and Kanas blocks in Puri district.[2] It reaches Bay of Bengal 70 kilometres (43 mi) south of the mouth of Mahanadhi river, a short distance from the border of Cuttack and Puri districts.[3] The mouth of the river is surrounded by dense forests absent of inhabitants.[4]"
Navigation
"The river is navigable till Machgaon by small sloops. It is one of the best tidal channels in Orissa, but, yet big vessels can not enter the river upstream due to a large sediment of sand in the mouth of the river.[5] Two fishermen were killed and two injured when a boat capsized near Astarang in the Devi River on 13 May 1988.[6]"
Turtle rookery
"The mouth of the Devi river serves as a nesting ground for olive ridley sea turtles during their breeding season. The first rookery in this area north of Puri was discovered in 1981. Nesting occurs on mainland India and dynamic sand bars which appear and change forms from year to year.[7] About 800,000 turtles come to this region every winter for breeding. However, the turtle nesting has declined in recent years due to mass death believed to be brought about by increased mechanised fishing. Over 6,000 olive ridleys were killed in year 2003 alone. According to a 2007 estimate, over 130,000 turtles have been found dead on these beaches over the previous 13 years.[8][9] The effort to set aside the mouth of Devi River and Rushikulya River as sanctuaries for olive ridley turtles were opposed by local fishing communities.[10]"
The Koina River (Hindi: कोयेना नदी) (Odia: କୋଯେନା ନଦି) flows through West Singhbhum in the Indian state of Jharkhand.[1]
"The Koina originates near Bhangaon in Odisha, and flows for 83 kilometres (52 mi) before it joins the South Koel River. It flows through Saranda forest.[2]"
"Many of the rivers in the area dry up in the dry season. However, the Koina contains plenty of water in the height of the hot season even when no rain has fallen for many months. It has many more feeder streams than some of the others which may account for the difference.[3]"
"The Malaguni River (Mallaguni, Malangui) is a Nullah or hill stream in Khurda District, Odisha state of India. It originates on the border of Ganjam District and Khurda District. It flows northeast, east and southeast through Khurda Tahasil, passes historic Golabai Sassan and joins the Daya River at 20°0′1″N 85°37′30″E﻿ / ﻿20.00028°N 85.62500°E﻿ / 20.00028; 85.62500, 1 km (0.62 mi) north of Balabhadrapur village in Puri District. The Daya then flows southwest into Chilika Lake, which then flows to the Bay of Bengal.[1]"
"There is a minor irrigation project constructed on it near Rameswar village. When it floods, some portions of Khurda, Chilika and Tangi blocks are badly affected.[2]"
"Sileru River is a tributary of Sabari River. It originates in Andhra Pradesh and also flows through Odisha before merging with Sabari. Sabari river crosses the border into Andhra Pradesh to merge with Godavari river.[1] Sileru (known as Machkund in its upper reaches) river joins Sabari river at tri-junction boundary point of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha."
Hydro power potential
"Sileru river has huge potential of hydro electricity generation which has been substantially harnessed by constructing Machkund (120 MW), Balimela (510 MW), Upper Sileru (240 MW), Donkarayi (25 MW) and Lower Sileru hydro (460 MW) power projects.[2] Chitrakonda (60 MW) hydro project located at the toe of Balimela earth dam is planned to utilise the head available across the earth dam.[3]"
Irrigation potential
"The water released from the Balimela power station is used for irrigation in the Potteru tributary basin of Sabari in Odisha. At present the water released from the other power stations is not useful to irrigation needs except during lean flow period in main Godavari river for the requirements of Godavari delta. Uttarandhra region can create huge irrigation potential with the perennial water supply from the available water storages in Seleru river basin. The mid lands of East Godavari district can get augmented water supply by diverting Sileru river water from Donkarayi reservoir (310 m MSL) towards east of Eastern Ghats by constructing 35 km long tunnel with enhanced power potential.[4] Similarly, mid lands of Vishakhapatnam District, Vizianagaram district and Srikakulam district can get augmented water supply by diverting Sileru river water from Guntawada weir (head works of Upper Sileru power station) at 410 m MSL towards east by constructing 30 km long tunnel with enhanced power potential.[5] The diverted water of Sileru river to the east can also be used to supply water to the Polavaram left bank canal and Visakhapatnam city's continuous drinking water needs when water level is not adequate in Polavaram reservoir during non monsoon months."
"Surubalijora or Surubalijore is a small river (Jora or Jore) located in the Subalaya area of Birmaharajpur subdivision of Subarnapur district of Odisha, India.[1][2][3][4] It is originating from a mountain and merging with Mahanadi river near Subalaya, Tebhapadar and Ambasarabhata. It had created a small delta at the meeting place. Near this delta, the land is fertile and farmers from nearby villages cultivate various vegetables."
"The Odisha Bridge and Construction Corporation limited has constructed a bridge over Surubalijore near Subalaya and Kamira village. This bridge is playing a vital role in connecting various town viz. Rairakhol, Boudh, Subalaya, Birmaharajpur, Dharmasala, Sonepur and Sambalpur.[5]"
"Baghamari Village Baghamari Location in Orissa, India Coordinates: 20°13′14″N 85°30′05″E﻿ / ﻿20.22056°N 85.50139°E﻿ / 20.22056; 85.50139Coordinates: 20°13′14″N 85°30′05″E﻿ / ﻿20.22056°N 85.50139°E﻿ / 20.22056; 85.50139 Country  India State Orissa District Khurda Area  • Total 5 km2 (2 sq mi) Population  • Total 30,000  • Density 6,000/km2 (16,000/sq mi) Languages  • Official Odia ENGLISH Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Baghamari is a village located in the Western part of the district of Khurda in the Indian state of Orissa. The population is more than 20,000. The meaning of the name of this village is 'Killing the Tigers'. In times prior to Independence of India (1947), the area was deeply forested and populated with wild animals."
"The first mention of this village in chronicled history appears in the Madala Panji entries recorded during the reign of Gajapati Shri Mukunda Deva Maharaj, the last of the Gajapatis of State of Orissa and Khurda King Raja Ramachandra Dev-I. This Gajapati Mukunda Deva's summer residence was transferred to the village Baghamari during the heights of Paika Rebellion (Mutiny of the Peasant Warriors) of 1817 A.D. Baghamari remained the main centre of strategic resistance for a short time during that period. Baghamari was one out of the 74 'Gadas' (military strongholds) in the Khurda area at the command of the then Gajapati King of Khurda during the Paika Rebellion. Thereafter, the village appears in military history of Orissa as chronicled by the war records-keeper Shri Brajanath BadaJena."
"Baghmari is located at co-ordinates 20°13′14″N 85°30′05″E﻿ / ﻿20.22056°N 85.50139°E﻿ / 20.22056; 85.50139. The Kenduli River, which is a tributary of the Mahanadi, flows through the Western-Northern flank of the village and almost outline the extent of the village in these directions. The main locality the village is surrounded on all sides by green paddy fields. On the south-eastern boundary of the village, there is the famous hot-spring of Atri. The Atri hot-spring is a typical sulphur spring. There are now more than 25 baths and 2 pools in a lush green setting. This hot-spring acts as a big tourist attraction of the region."
"The population of the village is more than 20,000. The sex ratio of the village is close to 972 females per 1000 males. The village can be said to be located on the southern side of the State Highway No. 1. There are 7 major localities in the village, called the 'Sahis'. Originally, the 'Sahis' had been formed on the basis of occupational homogeneity and concept of 'Clan'. However, presently, there has been enormous inter-mixing and mingling among the 'sahis' leading to a mixed occupational structure in the 'sahis'."
Settlement Pattern/Structural Lay-out of the Village
"The village has two distinct areas of concentrated settlement, thus making the form that of a fragmented 'double village'. The larger settlement is of polygonal pattern on account of the influence of State Highway No. 1 on settlement structure. However, the settlement in the secondary settlement region is circular. The internal lanes are clustered with rectangular houses on both sides."
Economy
"Backbone of economy of this village is agriculture. Stone quarrying also contributes to income of the inhabitants. The village of Baghamari is located on a fork (One arm leading to Nayagarh city and the other to Banki city) of State Highway No. 1. Because of its vantage location, the village acts as a central place to nearby regions. In agriculture, on account of the absence of irrigation facilities, the only 2 crops could be grown on the fields."
Migration
"Forces of urbanization and globalization have led to emergence of 'pull' factors like better employment opportunities, higher income earning potential etc.. These have resulted in out-migration of large numbers of inhabitants of the village Baghamri to nearby townships of Khurda and city of Bhubaneswar, creating geographies of economic displacement. The complex process of migration have resulted in drastic alterations in the web of social relations and cultural affinities in Baghamri's rural fabric, and have erased the simplistic notions of homogeneous rural cultures as regarded in normal Odia cultural paradigms."
Educational Scenario
"The educational scenario in the village is not satisfactory. Alpha-numeric literacy in the village is mere 63%, which is higher than the State average. There is only one school named the Raghunath Dev School for basic, primary, secondary and high school education."
Atri hot spring
"Atri hot spring is situated in the village of Baghamari. Atri has a sulfur hot-Spring (Locally called the 'Kua Kunda' - Crow's Tank). Atri also has a famous temple dedicated to Lord Hatakeswara (a variant of Lord Shiva). The Famous Makar Mela is celebrated here at the time of makar sakranti (as of Hindu calendar) for 30 days. Nearly 1,00,000 people gather here to see the mela in the first day of mela. On 2016, First time Mela is arranged by odisha tourisim department for 3 days with cultural programme."
"Bolagarh ବୋଲଗଡ Country Town Bolagarh Show map of Odisha Bolagarh Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°11′0″N 85°16′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.18333°N 85.26667°E﻿ / 20.18333; 85.26667Coordinates: 20°11′0″N 85°16′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.18333°N 85.26667°E﻿ / 20.18333; 85.26667 Country  India State Odisha District Khordha Tahasil Bolagarh Elevation 20 m (70 ft) Population (2009)  • Total 49,403[1] Languages  • Official Odia Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Lok Sabha constituency Bhubaneswar Vidhan Sabha constituency Bolagarh-Begunia Website odisha.gov.in"
Bolagarh[2] (Odia: ବୋଲଗଡ) is a Tahasil in Khordha in the Indian state of Odisha. It is the headquarters town for Bolagarh Tahasil. It can be classified as a main-road town. The NH-224 (India) highway passes through it.
"Although it is a country town. It has been activating as a Block headquarter from the post independence Era and going to be a Notified Area Council. It inherits a glorious past enriched with its magnificent nature, diversified culture and tradition unified, its unique identity in contribution to language, literature, tradition to Odisha both pre independence and post independence. Moreover, it was a part and parcel (great part/role) with its “Paika” force to the “paika mutiny” in odisha against royal anarchy at per with sepoy mutiny in India against colonial rulers. It was one of the forts of the past khordha kingdom."
"Bolagarh is a village panchayat located in the Khordha district of Orissa state,India. The latitude 20.1728756 and longitude 85.2756[3] are the geocoordinate of the Bolagarh. Bhubaneswar is the state capital for Bolagarh village. It is located around 59.9 kilometer away from Bolagarh. The other surrounding state capitals are Ranchi 354.4 km., Kolkata 416.0 km., Patna 605.9 km."
Weather and Climate
"It is Hot in summer. Bolagarh summer highest day temperature is in between 30 °C to 42 °C . Average temperatures of January is 21 °C, February is 24 °C, March is 29 °C, April is 31 °C, May is 32 °C ."
Places to see
Ghanashyam-Pindika museum & [4] Dola Yatra Fairground Jagannath Temple Maa Bata Mangala Temple Maa Bhuin-ani Temple Gabadi Mahaveer Temple
Fairs and Festivals
"Pandardola Yatra, Raja Yatra, Dhanu Yatra, Chandan Yatra, Ratha Yatra, Durga puja, Kali Puja, Shiva Ratri, Ganesh puja, Saraswati puja, Gajalaxmi Puja, Bolagarh Mahotsav,etc. [5]"
"College in Bolagarh: Paramanda College, Bolagarh"
How to Reach Bolagarh
By Air :
Bolagarh
"Chandahandi town Chandahandi Show map of Odisha Chandahandi Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°02′N 82°54′E﻿ / ﻿20.03°N 82.90°E﻿ / 20.03; 82.90Coordinates: 20°02′N 82°54′E﻿ / ﻿20.03°N 82.90°E﻿ / 20.03; 82.90 Country  India State Odisha District Nabarangpur Population (2001)  • Total 61,076 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 764077 Telephone code 06858 Vehicle registration OD Sex ratio 49.7:50.3 ♂/♀ Website odisha.gov.in"
Chandahandi is a town and Block in Nabarangpur District in Odisha State in India.[1]
"According to 2001 census,[2] the town had a total population of 61076, which constitutes of 30350 male and 30726 female. Total SC(Scheduled Caste) and ST(Scheduled Tribe) population was 6,479 and 20,276 respectively. [3] According to Census 2011, the block had a total of 73,953, which constitutes 36,460 males and 37,493 females across 87 census villages. There are about 9 villages with less than 200 population."
"Nearest railway stations: Jeypore 156 kilometres, Koraput 180 kilometres, Kesinga 110 kilometres, Raipur 205 kilometres,Bhawanipatna 75 km"
Famous places
"Phooljhari Dam, Maa pendrani Temple,Lord Jagganath Temple, bhainragumar(dense forest area) etc."
"The main economical factor over which chandahandi stands is production of maize and paddy. Outskirts yield maize, and this town is the hub for the transportation of tonnes of maize in post-rain seasons. Other than maize, some forest products like Kendu Leaf, Sal Seed, and vegetables are being exported to outside. Being based mainly on agriculture, business relating to fertilizer, pesticides, garments and retail are conducted. Weekly markets (Hato) are organized in a nearby location on fixed weekdays, to share products within the area. chandahandi is one of the highest producer of maize crop in whole Odisha."
"Mondei(Derived from Hidni word ""Mondi' means ""small market"") is a local festival and is a huge celebration in this town and Nabarangpur District. Most people of the town as well as the district celebrates the festival by worshipping a common presiding deity. Generally this festival is celebrated after harvesting of crops. During the festival many entertainment programmes like plays, opera, melody and folk dances are performed whole night. To watch this large no. of men and women comes from all corner of the Nabarangpur district."
Chandahandi
"Sisua ଶିଶୁଆ Village Sisua Location in Orissa, India Coordinates: 20°28′45″N 86°04′56″E﻿ / ﻿20.479063°N 86.082268°E﻿ / 20.479063; 86.082268Coordinates: 20°28′45″N 86°04′56″E﻿ / ﻿20.479063°N 86.082268°E﻿ / 20.479063; 86.082268 Country  India State Orissa District Cuttack Population  • Total 983 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 754202 Telephone code 0671 Vehicle registration OD- Nearest city Cuttack"
"Sisua (Odia: ଶିଶୁଆ‎‎) is a village in the Salepur block of Cuttack district, in the state of Odisha (previously called Orissa[1]), India. The village consists of approximately 200 dwellings.[2][3] The village can be reached by rail; however, the nearest rail station, Cuttack Rail Way Station, is 16 km from Sisua.[4] Situated at the village entrance is a huge Jagannath temple. There is a small pond near the Jagannath temple filled with lots of fish and lotuses. An annual cart festival is organized by the villagers."
"Sisua village is the home of 1214 people (626 males (52%), and 588 females (48%)). 78% of the population are general caste, 20% are schedule caste and 2% are schedule tribes. Children under the age of 6 represent only 10% of the population of the village (51% boys and 49% girls). There are about 254 households in the village, with an average of 5 individuals per household.[7]"
Food
"One dish, Pakhala, made from a mix of boiled rice and water, is eaten with boiled potatoes mixed with green chili pepper, curd, salt, and onions.[8] Biri chaula chakuli pithaconsisting of Vigna mungo and rice. It is normally eaten for breakfast. Chakuli pitha can be eaten with Santula or Dalma. Pitha is the main sweet dish at every festival they celebrate. There are different types of pitha made out of rice like Aarisa pitha, Manda Pitha, Kakara Pitha, Enduri Pitha, Chakuli Pitha, Poda Pitha, Chitau Pitha, Tala Pitha and much more.[9]"
"Many festivals are celebrated in this village, such as Manabasa Gurubara,[10] Raja, Dasahara, Holi, Diwali and Dola festival. Manabasa Gurubara is the biggest festival celebrated in this village because the religion of the locals is Hindu. Manabasa Gurubara is celebrated for the goddess of Laxmi, the deity of wealth and prosperity. This festival is celebrated each Thursday in the month of Margasira, which is four times during the month. Women clean their houses and make jhoti chita[11] from rice paste. It is believed that Laxmi visits each home on these days and gives blessings. There is a story about this festival in Laxmi Puran."
"Raja (festival),[12] another popular festival in this village, is for girls only. During this festival, girls wear new dresses, eat all types of pitha, and visit their friends and relatives."
Sports
"There is a cricket ground[14] in the village where children can play cricket and other types of games, such as marbles, Kabaddi, and Gilli-danda. Sisua people also organize cricket tournaments every year to encourage excitement for the sport."
"Itamati Jadumani Nagar village Itamati Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°8′N 85°9′E﻿ / ﻿20.133°N 85.150°E﻿ / 20.133; 85.150Coordinates: 20°8′N 85°9′E﻿ / ﻿20.133°N 85.150°E﻿ / 20.133; 85.150 Country  India State Odisha District Nayagarh Elevation 122 m (400 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 752068 [1] Nearest city Nayagarh Website odisha.gov.in"
Itamati is a village located in Nayagarh district of Odisha.[2] It is 6 km away from Nayagarh Town. Itamati is known as the major business centre of Nayagarh.
Business
"Being the Business centre of Nayagarh, Itamati reserves a marketplace in the centre of the Village. The marketplace covers a large area starting from Park Lane to Itamati Panchayat. Durga Bazar, Laxmi Bazaar and Ganesh Bazaar are the oldest (100 years of old) of all which holds some ancient shops."
People
The Utkal Ghanta Kabi Jadumani Mahapatra was born at Itamati in the year 1783 and died in 1868. He was the principal poet during the rule of king Binayak Singh Mandhata. Bidyadhar Mohapatra of Mandhatapur was his Sanskrit grammar teacher. Kabi Jadumani wrote Raghab Bilasa and Prabandha Purnachandra. He is one of the best poets of Orissa. His creations could be compared with that of Kabisamrat Upendra Bhanja.
"Itamati has one degree college, one junior college, three high schools and six upper primary schools. Some of the educational institutes are:"
Gods and temples
Itamati has a large number of temples. Some important ones are:
"Satyanarayan Temple also along with Lord Shiva Temple near Itamati Gram Panchayat. Maa Narayani Temple and Lord Shiv Temple, Sani Temple near Gouda Sahi. Jagannath temple in between Jagannath Sahi and Mohanty Sahi. Gopinath Temple in Deula sahi and Radhakrishana Temple in Kansari Sahi. Chitrakuta Bihari matha in Pradhan Sahi and Radhakanta matha in Behera Sahi. Danda Kamana Temples in Tanti Sahi, Paika Sahi and Khatia Sahi. Maa Kali Temple in Ratnapur Patana(Badatangi Patana). Maa Mangala Temple near the entrance of Itamati(from Bhubaneswar) in the way to Narayani Patana (Tangi Tota)."
Festival
"The well known festivals in Itamati are ""Panchu Dola"" and ""Dasha Dola"". The festival continues for four days. There are large swings for children, famous opera parties hold shows during the nights. People of Itamati are very eager to view such Opera shows. Dash Dola comes 10 days after Dola Purnima (Holi), in Chaitra Masa of the Oriya calendar (March and April). Rath Yatra (Car festival of Lord Jagannath), Jhulan Yatra, Danda Yatra. Danda Yatra begins on an auspicious day before Mahabishuba Sankranti.The last day is known as Meru parva. People enjoy Danda Nacha during night of the frestival. Udanda, Ganesh Puja, Laxmi Puja, Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Khudurukuni, Ramanavami, and Ram Charita Manas (9 days) are the other famous festivals of Gods and are celebrated with great pump and show in Itamati. Also Itamati people celebrate the jayanti of Utkal Ghanta Jadumani Mahapatra every year on 8th of January."
"Mangalajodi is an olden village under Tangi, Orissa block in Khordha district of Orissa at the northern edge of Chilika Lake. Scenic beauty of this village and its vast wetland attracts the visitors."
"Its vast wetlands attract thousands of migratory birds, journey from as far different places of the world. Its wetland now host more than 1.5 lakhs of birds in the peak season. November to March is a good time to visit for enjoying an amazing experience. Its importance as a significant global wetland habitat and declared as an International Bird Conservation Area."
"This village is not only famous as a birding destination or Eco-tourism, but also ritual performances of villagers. Many occasions and festivals are celebrated in Mangalajodi. Danda Yatra is one of the oldest ritual occasions celebrated in the month of Chaitra, performed by the people of this village in an amazing way for imparting Indian culture and social-upliftment. Paika Akhada is another dance performed by some villagers."
Antiquities
"Patita Paban Temple is an ancient and the biggest temple of this village. Besides this, Gupteswar Temple, Nilakathaswara Dev Temple, Gadiswar Dev Pitha, Maa Mangala Temple, Maa Brahmani Devi Temple, Maa Tara Devi Pitha and Maa Balimajhi Devi Temple are the famous religious spost of this village. Ancient legend of these temples give a unique religious status of Mangalajodi. Maa Balimajhi Devi Temple surrounds a local picnic spot of this village. The scenic beauty of this spot attracts everyone."
Industry
Country boat manufacturing units are established in this village and have supplied different types of wooden boats to government and public.
"Mangalajodi is easy to reach by rail or road. The nearest passenger rail stop is Mukteswar PH, which is nearest to the Mangalajodi. The nearest bus stop is Tangi, 60 km from Bhubaneswar towards Berhampur through NH5. Kalupada Ghat railway station is another nearby railway station where some of the Express Trains stop."
Bird Images
"Sri Lakshmi Varaha Swamy Temple is a 500 year-old Indian temple dedicated to Varaha, the boar incarnation of Vishnu."
"The temple is located in the Indian state of Odisha, in the Kendrapara District. Brahmani River is the nearest river. The temple is about one kilometer away from the center of tehsil Aul, which is situated about 146 km from the state capital of Bhubaneswar. Regular bus services are available from Kendrapara, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Bhubaneswar. The nearest railway station is Bhadrak, on the Chennai–Howrah railway route.[1]"
Legend of Varahajew
"The King of Aul was a devotee of Sri Lakshmi and Varaha. The Lord was situated in the Maa Biraja Pitha in the Jajpur District, along with Yajna Baraha Temple and often went there to offer Puja, which is a Hindu act of worship. One day during the month of Shraavana, the Baitarani River flooded, so the darshan was cancelled. Believing that the Lord couldn't tolerate that, the king dreamed that the Lord came with him to his place to Aul (locally called Alli). One day the Lord came, following the king's path of return, after puja. As the king was returning by horseback, he listened to the sound of the Lord following him. At Aul the sound of the Lord's walking stopped. In this place, the devoted king built the Lord's holy temple. The Yajna Baraha Temple remains there in Jajpur. The present temple was renovated by the late king of Aul, Sri Brajasundar Dev during the 20th century, after the temple had been in a ruined state for the previous 500 years."
"Baraza dwadashi, Avatara divas of baraza on Maagha shukla dwadashi gathers a lakh of devotees from around the area. Baraza Dola Yatra, the swing festival during Phalguna or Holi. Raja Parva Vijaya Dashami Kumar Purnima Kartik Purnima Ratha Yatra [bakula amawasya] [samba dasami] [makara sankranti] [pana sankranti] [subha sunia]"
konisi Village The canal bay sight Country  India State Odisha District Ganjam Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 761008 Telephone code 0680
Randha is one of the significant village in the Kanisi Tehsil of Ganjam[1] district in the Indian State of Odisha(ଓଡ଼ିଶା). The Pincode of Randha is 761008. The village is 31.2 km from its district main sub-division Chatrapur and is 180 km from its State capital Bhubaneswar . Randha is a suburb of the city Berhampur(ବ୍ରହ୍ମପୁର in Oriya) and is only 6 km away.
Geography
"Randha is located at 19°23'31""N 84°45'9""E (19.38164 84.76059). Some of the villages around Randha with distance are Chikarada (3.2 km), Panchama (2 km), Kanisi (2 km), Golanthara(2.2 km), Jugudi (5.2 km)."
Occupations
"Many residents commute to nearby Berhampur for work.[2] There are many businessman and farmers in Randha. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy in the village. Randha is a market hub for nearby villages, especially for fresh vegetables."
Temples & Festivals
"Most people in the village are Hindus. Randha is a hub of temples. A number of temples are established in the village out of which Mukteswar Temple is very prominent. The brightening of those temples often occurs in the festivals like Maha Shivratri, Diwali and the decorated stalls during Dushera. Ganesh Puja is celebrated. Regional festivals are Jhami yatra, Makar Sankranti, Danda Yatra & meru, Rath yatra (Sri Jagannath Yatra)."
Thakurani Yatra
"Maa budhi Thakurani, popularly known as 'Thakurani Yatra' is an annual festival in the village. Maa budhi Thakurani goddess is brought in the form of flower to a temporarily constructed temple. The flower comes automatically from the head of maa budhi thakurani, and to observe this event people gather at the temple."
Visiting places
Some places to visit near the village are:
Gopalpur-on-sea Silk city Berhampur Tara Tarini temple Panchama Ganesh temple IRE Port Sonapur beach Siddha Vairabi Temple
"In Randha are a number of colleges,sanklp daybording school,kit coaching centres and other educational institutions, including the Primary high school (Randha) and Saraswati sisu vidya mandir. Nearby are Kanisi high school and Takshila."
Banks
"The state bank of india,uco bank,bank of india(RGB) is in konisi .[4]"
"Gandala Village Gandala Show map of Odisha Gandala Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 19°19′N 84°47′E﻿ / ﻿19.32°N 84.78°E﻿ / 19.32; 84.78Coordinates: 19°19′N 84°47′E﻿ / ﻿19.32°N 84.78°E﻿ / 19.32; 84.78 Country  India State Odisha District Ganjam Elevation 28 m (92 ft) Population (2012)  • Total 8,389 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 761 003 Telephone code 06811- Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Gandala is a small village located in the eastern coastline of Ganjam District in the Indian state of Odisha.
Gandala is a town under the panchayat of Hinjilicut. Majority of people in this town are dependent on cultivation.
Gandala has an average elevation of 28 m (92 ft).
"According to a 2013 report on world Gazetter India census,[1] Gandala-Belagan had a population of 8389 which is more than Gopalpur port town. Gandala is a Panchayat (with one village) & Belagan also a Panchayat (with one village). Both the villages are merged about 30 years back like Hinjili and katu."
"The village is agog with activities to welcome goddess Budhi Thakurani to her temporary abode for the biennial Thakurani Jatra festival at late night. The hereditary head of the festival, who is also regarded as the head of the weaver Dera community of the city, Desibehera dressed in his traditional attire reached the Budhi Thakurani temple to invite the goddess to her parental abode at his home on Saturday afternoon. His wife also accompanied him as per the tradition. They also offered ritualistic offerings at the Kalika temple."
References
"Patrapur village Patrapur Location in Orissa, India Coordinates: 19°07′55″N 84°34′13″E﻿ / ﻿19.13194°N 84.57028°E﻿ / 19.13194; 84.57028Coordinates: 19°07′55″N 84°34′13″E﻿ / ﻿19.13194°N 84.57028°E﻿ / 19.13194; 84.57028 Country  India State Orissa District Ganjam Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 761004 Telephone code 0680 Vehicle registration OR-07 OD-07 Nearest city Ichchapuram Sex ratio 50%-50% ♂/♀ Climate normal (Köppen)"
"Patrapur is one of the block headquarters of Ganjam district situated south of Orissa bordering to Andhra Pradesh. It is located southwest of Berhampur and southeast of Chikiti. It is one of the biggest villages of Ganjam district, having more than 15,000 people."
"Patrapur is a business center catering to surrounding villages. The major occupations are agriculture, trading and self-employment. People are dependent on rain for crops. There are 3 Primary Schools, one middle English School, one girls' high school and one coeducational high school. Commercial banks like Canara Bank, State Bank Of India Cooperative Banks, a court, a Fire Station, Tahasil offices, a hospital and other establishments encourage people from nearby villages to come to the town. People speak Oriya as mother tongue, however Telugu is an additional language because Patrapur borders with Andhra Pradesh, recently Thakurani Yatra is celebrated with much funfair, around 50000 people gather daily for 10 days of the yatra."
"Bandhaguda ବନ୍ଧାଗୁଡା Village Bandhaguda Location in Orissa, India Coordinates: 19°34′03″N 84°35′03″E﻿ / ﻿19.5676°N 84.5842°E﻿ / 19.5676; 84.5842Coordinates: 19°34′03″N 84°35′03″E﻿ / ﻿19.5676°N 84.5842°E﻿ / 19.5676; 84.5842 Country  India State Odisha District Ganjam Population  • Total 6,000 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 761106 Telephone code 06822 Vehicle registration OR-07/OD-07 Nearest city Sheragada, Aska, Berhampur Legislative Assembly Constituency Hinjilicut Avg. Summer Temperature 42 °C (108 °F) Avg. Winter Temperature 24 °C (75 °F) Website odisha.gov.in"
"Bandhaguda is a village under ""Sheragada"" block in Ganjam district, Odisha, India. It is also a ""Grama Panchayat"" consists of 6 villages which are B.Chikili, Bandhaguda, Chasamahuli, Gopapalli, Laxminursinghapur and Sadangipalli. It is 55 km from the Brahmapur city. Historically this village provides rural education to around 15 villages around the area. People get their primary education from Janata Uchha Prathamika Bidyalaya and secondary education is being provided by Sri Jagannath Vidyapeeth, Kansa."
Economy
"Around 55% of the work force get their living from agriculture. Agriculture is mainly dependent on Monsoon rain. People of Bandhaguda believe in hard work. Banking Service is provided one Regional Rural Bank named Rushikulya Gramya Bank, Bandhaguda Branch, sponsored by Andhra Bank."
There are two schools which provides basic education to the student of Bandhaguda and to the students from nearby villages. Janata Upper Primary School provides education up to class VII and Sri Jagannath Bidyapeeth Kansa provides education upt class 10th.
"People strongly believe in God and celebrate all the festivals jointly representing the true culture of Orissa. There are three ancient temples in the Village. They are Sri Krishna Temple, Sri Shiva Temple & Maa Kalika Temple."
Bandhaguda
"Raulibandha is a village in Malada Gram Panchayat, Ganjam district in the state of Odisha, India.[1]"
"Raulibandha Village in Ganjam district, Orissa."
Raulibandha is located 3 km from the State Highway connecting Humma-Purushottampur at the nearest village Santoshpur. The total area of the village is 324.545 acres.[2]
Demography
"According to 2011 census, Raulibandha has a total population of 687 (male:47%, female:53%). Raulibandha has a literacy rate of 69% (male:89%, female:53%)lower than the state average literacy rate of 73%. 16% of the population is under 6 years of age. Average Sex Ratio of the village is 1127 which is higher than Odisha state average of 979, whereas Child Sex Ratio is only 909, lower than Odisha average of 941.[3] Since Ganjam district has border with Andhra Pradesh, like many other places- majority of population in Raulibandha is Telugu by mother tongue."
Life of Raulibandha
"Raulibandha has one primary school to study up to 5th class, then students have to go to Santoshpur, located at 3 km for high school. People of Raulibandha are mostly engaged in agricultural activities. Rice, ground nut, cashew nut, different pulses, mustard, etc."
"According to Risk Assessment, Vulnerability Analysis & Capacity Analysis by the state government, Raulibandha is vulnerable to flood by the nearby river Rishukulya situated on the other side of the village to Municipentha.[4]"
"The Manu River rises in the mountains of Tripura (India). After its initial rapid passage through mountainous terrain it slows and meanders during its course, which includes the Sylhet plains. It joins the Kushiyara River at Manumukh in the Bangladeshi district of Moulvibazar.[1]"
Confluence of the Lachen and Lachung Rivers c. 1885
"The Lachen River is a tributary of the Teesta River in the state of Sikkim, India. It is one of the two main tributaries of the Teesta along with the Lachung River, which rise on opposite sides of the Donga Range in neighbouring Bhutan[1] and converge in Chungthang in the North Sikkim district.[2]"
"The Betwa or Betravati is a river in Northern India, and a tributary of the Yamuna. Also known as the Vetravati, the Betwa rises in the Vindhya Range just north of Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh and flows north-east through Madhya Pradesh and Orchha to Uttar Pradesh. Nearly half of its course, which is not navigable, runs over the Malwa Plateau. The confluence of the Betwa and the Yamuna Rivers is Hamirpur town in Uttar Pradesh, in the vicinity of Orchha.[2]"
"In Sanskrit ""Betwa"" is Vetravati. This river is mentioned in the epic Mahabharata along with the Charmanwati river. Both are tributaries of Yamuna. Vetravati was also known as Shuktimati. The capital of Chedi Kingdom was on the banks of this river.The total length of the river from its origin to its confluence with Yamuna is 590 kilometres (370 mi), out of which 232 kilometres (144 mi) lies in Madhya Pradesh and the balance of 358 kilometres (222 mi) in Uttar Pradesh. In accordance with an inter-state agreement between the states of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in 1973, Betwa River Board (BRB) was constituted under the Betwa River Board Act, 1976. The Union Minister of Ministry of Water Resources the Chairman of the Board and the Union Minister of Power, Union Minister of State for Water Resources, Chief Ministers and Ministers in-charge of Finance, Irrigation and Power of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are its Members.[3]"
Future
"The Betwa River is being linked with the Ken River as a part of the river linking project in Madhya Pradesh. Another noteworthy project on the Betwa River is the construction of the Matatila Dam, an undertaking between the states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The region is important for migratory waterbirds.[4] An ambitious pro-ject to link Ken and Betwarivers has become a stage foraunique man-animal con-flict. Proponents of the pro-ject, led by the Union WaterMinistry, say that the pro-posed Daudhan dam and the2.5 km canal — the key struc-tures of the project — thatwill transfer surplus waterfrom the Uttar Pradesh sec-tion of the Ken to the Betwain Madhya Pradesh are criti-cal to irrigate nearly 7,00,000hectares in drought-ravagedBundelkhand."
Rajghat Dam Matatila Dam Parichha Dam Dhurwara Dam
"↑ Chaube, U.C.; Suryavanshi, Shakti; Nurzaman, Lukman; Pandey, Ashish (Nov 7, 2011). ""Synthesis of flow series of tributaries in Upper Betwa basin"" (PDF). International Journal of Environmental Sciences. 1 (7). Retrieved 12 February 2014.  ↑ Betwa River Archived August 24, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. ↑ Betwa River Board Ministry of Water Resources website. ↑ Shukla, D.C. 1994 Habitat characteristics of wetlands of the Betwa Basin, India, and wintering populations of endangered waterfowl species. Global wetlands, pp. 863–68"
"The Rangeet or Rangit (Devanagari रंगीत) is a tributary of the Teesta river, the largest river in the North Indian state of Sikkim[1] and Kalimpong Subdivision. The Rangeet river originates in the Himalayan mountains in West Sikkim district. A perennial river, it is fed by the melting snow of the Himalayas in early summer and the monsoon rains in June–September. It is popular among rafting enthusiasts owing to its turbulent waters. The river flows past the towns of Jorethang, Pelling and Legship. During its final few kilometres, it joins the Teesta River at a confluence[2] known as Tribeni,[3] a popular picnic spot. The Rangeet river has an NHPC hydropower plant with a capacity of 60 megawatts (80,000 hp) capacity in Sikkim.[4]"
Dwarakeswar River (Bengali: দ্বারকেশ্বর নদ) (also known as Dhalkisor) is a major river in the western part of the Indian state of West Bengal.
The river originates from Tilboni hill in Purulia district and enters Bankura district near Chhatna. It cuts across the district flowing past the district headquarters and enters the southeastern tip of Bardhaman District. It then passes through Hooghly District.[1]
"The Silai joins it near Ghatal and the two together are known as Rupnarayan River, which flows into the Hooghly River near Gadiara in Howrah District."
"Dwarakeswar River has much sedimentation from low water (any season). In rainy seasons it is filled up with water; then huge sedimentations are blocked the channel, even near Arambag city the channel basin reduced by gurbages andman activity."
Projects
"There is a proposal for the construction of a dam across the Dwarakeswar. The preliminary project report on Dwarakeswar Gandheswari Reservoir was received by the Central Water Commission in January 2004 for ""in-principle"" consent for preparation of a detailed Project Report was conveyed to the State Government in March 2004.[2]"
Dibang River is a tributary river of the Brahmaputra that flows through the northeast Indian states of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam.
"The Dibang originates near Keya pass on the Indo-Chinese border in the Dibang Valley district of Arunachal Pradesh. The drainage basin of the river within Arunachal Pradesh covers the districts of Dibang Valley and Lower Dibang Valley.[1] The Mishmi Hills lie in the upper course of the Dibang which enters the plains at Nizamghat. Between Nizamghat and Sadiya the Dibang has a steep river gradient and exhibits braided channel morphology with its width varying from 4 to 9 kilometres (2 to 6 mi). It often changes its course resulting in flooding and destruction of cultivable land and forests along its banks.[2] The Dibang, with a total length of 195 kilometres (121 mi), enters the River Lohit north of the Dibru-Saikhowa sanctuary near the Assamese town of Sadiya.[3][4]"
"The Mathun, Tangon, Dri, Ithun and Emra are the major tributaries of the Dibang. The Dibang is also joined by a number of tributaries such as the Airi Pani, Ilu Pani, Imu Pani, Ahi, Ashupani, Epipani and Deopani rivers during its course. Most of these rivers join it in the upper course in the hills thus giving it a wide fan shaped catchment region.[1][2]"
Hydro projects
"In 2008 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid the foundation stone for a 3000 MW dam as part of the Dibang Multipurpose Project the district of Lower Dibang Valley. Seventeen other dams with power potential between 20 and 4500 MW have also been proposed for the Dibang. The proposed Dibang dam, at 288 metres (945 ft), on completion would be among the largest dams in India and among the world's tallest gravity dams has since run into opposition from the Mishmi people and the Assamese who live downstream of the project.[1][5][6]"
"Mundeswari river is a small river in West Bengal which causes floods in Hooghly, Purba Medinipur and Howrah districts during the monsoons. Any discharge above 2,000 cubic metres per second (70,000 cu ft/s) downstream of Durgapur Barrage may cause flooding depending on the outfall condition of the Mundeswari at Harinkhola.[1] It has been suggested that the banks of rivers such as Mundeswari should be protected with embankments to prevent floods.[2]"
"The river is not mentioned in the 1910 district gazetteers, but it is mentioned in the 1994 Bardhaman District gazetteer.[3]"
"During the devastating floods of 1914, the Damodar River split in two. One part joined the Mundeswari and the main channel of water of the Damodar now flows into the Mundeswari, turning it into a major river.[3]"
Geography
"It originates as a canal from Srirampur, a village in Madabdihi at the police station in Raina II block of the Bardhaman district. It flows past Kaiti Chakbhura and enters the Hooghly District. It ultimately flows into the Rupnarayan River.[3]"
The Mechi River is a trans-boundary river flowing through Nepal and India. It is a tributary of the Mahananda River.
"The Mechi originates in the Mahabharat Range in Nepal. It flows through Nepal, forms the boundary between India and Nepal and then flows through the Indian state of Bihar to join the Mahananda in Kishanganj district.[1][2]"
The Mechi-Mahananda interfluve is a transitional area between the hills and the plains and exhibits a wide range of topographical variations. The rivers originating in the hills attain a braiding character and have well developed alluvial fans.[3]
"The Mahananda river system of which Mechi is a part has a catchment area of 8,088 square kilometres (3,123 sq mi) in Nepal and 11,520 square kilometres (4,450 sq mi) in India.[4]"
Embankments
"Embankments exist of the left bank of the Mechi River for 14 kilometres (9 mi) in West Bengal. These need remodelling to prevent floods in the Naxalbari area of Darjeeling district.[4]There also is a need for new embankments. As the Mechi forms the international border, it was agreed at a meeting of the Nepal-India Joint Standing Technical Committee to take due care in aligning the embankments so that they would be at identified distance from the border and the top levels of the embankments should be kept same on both sides, as far as practicable.[5]"
River linking
"There is a proposal to link the Mechi to the Kosi. Kosi–Mechi interlinking is part of a NPR 56000 billion River Interlinking Project proposed to Nepal by India. The Kankai forms part of this project. Besides the High Dam, a barrage across Kosi river will also be constructed near village Chatra, 10 to 12 kilometres (6 to 7 mi) below the proposed Kosi High Dam, to transfer water to the Mechi through the Kosi–Mechi link canal.[4][6]"
The Kamala River (Hindi and Nepali: कमला नदी kamalā nadī) originates from Nepal and flows through Indian state of Bihar.
"The main tributaries of the Kamala River are the Tao, Baijnath Khola,[4] Mainawati, Dhauri, Soni, Balan, Trisula, and Chadaha.[1]"
River and basin data
"The total length of the Kamala is 328 kilometres (204 mi) of which 208 kilometres (129 mi) is in Nepal and the remaining 120 kilometres (75 mi) is in India. The river drains a total catchment area of 7,232 square kilometres (2,792 sq mi) out of which 4,488 square kilometres (1,733 sq mi) lies in Bihar in India and the rest 2,744 square kilometres (1,059 sq mi) in Nepal. Average annual rainfall is 1,260 millimetres (50 in). Cropped area in Bihar is 2,744 square kilometres (1,059 sq mi). Population of the Kamala basin in Bihar is 3.9 million.[1]"
Floods
The extent of flood impact can be gauged from the fact that about one million people were affected by floods in the Kamala and other rivers in the region in 2003.[5]
"While 16.5 per cent of the total flood affected area in India is in Bihar, 57 per cent of India’s flood affected population live in Bihar, out of which 76 per cent are in northern Bihar.[6] About 68,800 square kilometres (26,600 sq mi) out of total area of 94,160 square kilometres (36,360 sq mi) or about 73.06 percent of the total area of Bihar is flood affected. Over 70 per cent of the population of North Bihar lives under recurring threat of floods.[7]"
Kamala Multipurpose Project
The Kamala Multipurpose Project would involve the construction of storage dam on the Kamala River in the districts of Dhanusa and Siraha in Nepal. The project would provide year round irrigation facilities and generate hydropower with an installed capacity of 30 MW. This scheme forms part of the Sunkosi Storage-cum-Diversion Scheme which involves diverting water from the Sunkosi River to the Kamala River to augment lean season flow.[9]
The Budhi Gandaki River (Nepali:बुडी गण्डकी खोला) is a tributary of the Ganges. It is known as Sikrahana in its upper reaches. The Budhi (“Old”) Gandak flows parallel to and east of the Gandak River in an old channel.[1][2]
"The Burhi Gandak originates from Chautarwa Chaur near Bisambharpur in the district of West Champaran in Bihar.[3]It initially flows through the East Champaran district. After flowing for a distance of about 56 kilometres (35 mi), the river takes a southerly turn where two rivers - the Dubhara and the Tour – join it. Thereafter, the river flows in a south-easterly direction through the Muzaffarpur district for about 32 kilometres (20 mi). In this portion, the river spills over its banks and a number of spill channels take off and rejoin it later.[1]"
"The Burhi Gandak runs a zig-zag course through the districts of Samastipur and Begusarai before covering a short distance in Khagaria district, running by the side of the town of Khagaria, and flows into the Ganges. It forms the western boundary of the Khagaria town and a protection embankment built along the eastern side of this river, protects Khagaria town from the floods of Burhi Gandak. [4][5][6]"
"The total length of the river is 320 kilometres (200 mi). The drainage area of the river is 10,150 square kilometres (3,920 sq mi).[1]"
Tributaries
"The main tributaries of the Burhi Gandak are - Masan, Balor, Pandai, Sikta, Tilawe, Tiur, Dhanauti, Kohra,Anjankote and Danda.[3]"
"The Howrah–New Jalpaiguri line is a railway line connecting Howrah with New Jalpaiguri railway station in North Bengal in the Indian state of West Bengal. The line continues through North Bengal and southern part of Assam to connect with Guwahati. The Naihati–Bandel link allows trains from another terminus Sealdah in Calcutta to use this route. The line uses a major part of the Barharwa–Azimganj–Katwa loop. Many trains use an alternative line between Howrah and New Farakka, via Bardhaman and Barharwa. Other parts of West Bengal and Bihar are well-connected to this line. It is under the administrative jurisdiction of Eastern Railway and Northeast Frontier Railway."
The Darjeeling Mail is one of the legendary trains in the eastern region of India that has been running from pre-independence days and is still in operation. It connects to the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway at New Jalpaiguri in Siliguri. This is a major train for Kolkata-Siliguri route and Haldibari slip route.
During the British period all connections to North Bengal were through East Bengal.
"From 1878, the railway route from Kolkata, then called Calcutta, to Siliguri was in two laps. The first lap was a 185 km journey along the Eastern Bengal State Railway from Calcutta Station (later renamed Sealdah) to Damookdeah Ghat on the southern bank of the Padma River. The passengers would then avail a ferry across the river. The second lap of the journey was a 336 km metre gauge line of the North Bengal Railway that linked Saraghat on the northern bank of the Padma to Siliguri.[2]"
"Later the 1.8 km long Hardinge Bridge across the Padma came up in 1912.[3] In 1926 the metre-gauge section north of the bridge was converted to broad gauge, and so the entire Calcutta - Siliguri route became broad-gauge.[2] The route thus roughly ran: Sealdah-Ranaghat-Bheramara-Hardinge Bridge-Iswardi-Santahar-Hili-Parabtipur-Nilphamari-Haldibari-Jalpaiguri-Siliguri."
"The Wardha River[1] (Varada River,[2] Marathi: वर्धा Telugu: వార్ధా నది) is one of the biggest rivers in Vidarbha region in India. The Wardha River joins the Wainganga River south of Chamorshi and forms the Pranahita River at Adilabad District, Telangana.[3]"
Origin
"Wardha originates at an altitude of 777 meters Satpura Range in village khairwani near Multai, Betul District of Madhya Pradesh.........."
"From the origin it flows 32 km in Madhya Pradesh and then enters into Maharashtra. After traversing 528 km, it joins the Wainganga forming the Pranahita, which ultimately flows into the Godavari River."
Tributaries
"Kar, Wena, Jam, Erai are the left tributaries. Madu, Bembla, Penganga are the right tributaries."
Dams
"A huge dam Upper Wardha Dam is built on Wardha river near *Morshi . It is considered as lifeline for Amravati city and Morshi and Warud Talukas considered as California of India for its orange plantations.[4] A dam on Bembala river under construction, to be considering a lifeline for part of Yavatmal Dist."
Siliguri Town is one of the three railway stations that serve Siliguri in Darjeeling district in the Indian state of West Bengal. The other two stations are: Siliguri Junction and New Jalpaiguri.
"In 1878, the railway line from Calcutta (later called Sealdah) station to Siliguri was in two stages – 1,676 mm (5 ft 6 in) broad gauge from Calcutta to Damookeah Ghat, on the southern bank of the Padma, across the river in a ferry and then 1,000 mm (3 ft 3 3⁄8 in) metre gauge to Siliguri. In 1881, the 610 mm (2 ft) narrow gauge line from Siliguri to Darjeeling was added. In 1926, with the Hardinge Bridge in position, the entire Calcutta-Siliguri line was converted to 1,676 mm broad gauge and in 1947, following the partition of India the line was severed, as a major portion of the line ran through East Pakistan.[1]"
"In the post-partition era, with makeshift arrangements via Barsoi and Kishanganj being metre gauge and narrow gauge, the focus shifted in 1949 to a new Siliguri Junction railway station and later still, in 1961 to the new broad gauge station at New Jalpaiguri.[1]"
Siliguri Town railway station
"The Wainganga (IAST: Wainagaṅgā) is a river of India, which originates about 12 km (7.5 mi) from Mundara village of Seoni district in the southern slopes of the Satpura Range of Madhya Pradesh, and flows south through Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra states in a very winding course of approximatedly 579 km (360 mi). After joining the Wardha, the united stream, known as the Pranahita, ultimately falls into the Godavari river at Kaleshwaram, Telangana."
"The river has developed extensive flood plains with sweeping graceful meanders and low alluvial flats and meander terraces. The river has high banks 10 m (33 ft) to 15 m (49 ft) on either side. The Wainganga river receives numerous tributaries on either bank and drains the western, central and eastern regions of the Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Gondia and Nagpur districts of Maharashtra. The chief tributaries of the Wainganga are the Garhavi, Khobragadi, Kathani and Potphondi on the western bank and Andhari on the eastern bank."
Cities On The River Bank
Balaghat and Bhandara are the major urban hub cities situated just on the bank of Wainganga River While Pauni and Desaiganj are the small urban center situation on the bank of this River. The Government of Maharashtra is developing Protection Wall for Bhandara City to protect the Major City from heavy Flooding of River. The flood protection bund encircles Bhandara City from East and South directions. Wainganga River is water lifeline of these cites and primary source of Water. The Balaghat and Bhandara Municipal Council have a water treatment plants and fields pipeline to Wainganga River.
Water Transportation
The river is to be used for river transportation under national waterways project. The first River Port is likely to be established in Bhandara City.[1]
Tributaries of Wainganga
Originated in the Dhanora Pendhri Hills and joins Wainganga near Gadchiroli city.
In fiction
"Rudyard Kipling used the Wainganga (also spelled Wangunga in older editions) as a major landmark in the Mowgli stories of The Jungle Book and The Second Jungle Book (1894–1895). It is the primary source of water for all the people of the jungle, the location of the Peace Rock, the place where Shere Khan vows to place Mowgli's bones once he has killed him, and the final battleground in ""Red Dog"". In reality though the area around the Wainganga is not actually a rainforest. The Disney interpretation of Kipling's novel as an animated film showed Mowgli and the other jungle characters moving around in lush tropical rain forests but the area around the Wainganga is dry and dusty. The forests too are of a similar nature. The original novel refers to the area likewise. The forests of the Kanha National Park built around the Wainganga do have tiger, leopard, and bear populations though."
New Jalpaiguri (more colloquially : NJP Station) is a railway station in the Indian state of West Bengal which serves the metropolis of Siliguri. It is the newest station in the city which was principally designed for the Indian broad gauge.
"The partition of India in 1947 completely disrupted communication links in North Bengal and Assam with the southern parts of West Bengal. Earlier, the links were through the eastern part of Bengal, which became a part of Pakistan in 1947. Siliguri gained in importance as the gateway to North Bengal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Assam.[1]"
New Jalpaiguri railway station is amongst the top hundred booking stations of Indian Railway.[5]
"New Jalpaiguri is connected to almost all parts of the country (except Goa) and has been ranked 10th in the Cleanest Railway Stations of India recently. It has a good connection to Kolkata, Delhi and Guwahati and there are many other trains to different parts of India. New Jalpaiguri is the Busiest station in North Bengal and the Northeast Frontier Railway Zone. Three Rajdhani and a Shatabdi Express (to Howrah) run at this station."
"There are 15 Trains to Delhi, 16 Trains to Kolkata, 7 Trains to Chennai, 4 Trains to Bangalore, 4 Trains to Mumbai and there are many other trains that halt at this station"
"Balaghat & Mahadeo Hills spread on the Western borders of erstwhile Nizam's Dominions'. Balaghat Hills are spread in South Marathwada, North Andhra & North Karnataka Districts. Mahadeo Hills are spread in North Karnataka (Belgaum-Bijapur-Raichur) Districts and South Maharashtra."
The Mahadeo Hills are a range of hills in Madhya Pradesh state of central India. The hills form the central part of the Satpura Range.
"The Mahadeo Hills run east and west through Betul, Chhindwara, and Seoni districts, separating the basin of the Narmada River to the north from that of the Wainganga and Wardha rivers, tributaries of the Godavari, to the south. The hills have a gentle northern slope, but drop abruptly to the south onto the Deccan Plateau. The hills are home to tropical moist deciduous forests, part of the Eastern highlands moist deciduous forests ecoregion."
Mahadeo Temple
"The Mahadeo Hills also conseal a temple near the Narmada River that is dedicated to Shiva, the god of destruction in the Hindu religion. It is believed that the Narmada River is a daughter of the destroyer god.[1]"
Mahadeo Hills
"Jeonara जेवनारा village Jeonara Location in Madhya Pradesh, India Coordinates: 22°2′29″N 79°46′40″E﻿ / ﻿22.04139°N 79.77778°E﻿ / 22.04139; 79.77778Coordinates: 22°2′29″N 79°46′40″E﻿ / ﻿22.04139°N 79.77778°E﻿ / 22.04139; 79.77778 Country  India State Madhya Pradesh District Seoni Government  • Body Gram panchayat Elevation 655 m (2,149 ft) Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 480667 Telephone code 07692 Nearest city Seoni Lok Sabha constituency Balaghat Vidhan Sabha constituency Barghat"
"Jeonara is a village in the Seoni district of Madhya Pradesh, India.[1]"
"It is situated at an altitude of 513 metres (1,683 ft) and lies 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) from Barghat, the Tehsil headquarters, and 28 kilometres (17 mi) from Seoni, the district headquarters."
The major profession of the villagers is agriculture. State Highway 26 [SH-26] passes through village which links district headquarters Seoni with neighboring district Balaghat.
"The village was owned by local Rahangdale family. Shri Kusa Rahangdale has bought this village and his son Shri Inka Rahangdale planned and reformed it around 1780. The tenth generation of this family is still serving with their high value ancestral public welfare program. Shri Ram Singh Rahangdale has been a prominent personality of this village. His son Shri Gajanand Rahangdale is the chief land owner of the village and is the Chairman of Satyaprerana Vidyamandir committee, which runs school for primary education of poor children. His brother Shri Mahanand Rahangdale is known lawyer and politician and had contested for Barghat constituency in 1998 state elections."
Festivals
"This place is well known in vicinity for its Mahashivratri Mela, a religious gathering of Shiva devotees, every year in February - March. Local Mela Samiti or festival committee takes care of event. The 3 day festival concludes with a bullock cart race."
Jeonara
"Keolari City Keolari Show map of Madhya Pradesh Keolari Show map of India Location in Madhya Pradesh, India Coordinates: 22°22′N 79°54′E﻿ / ﻿22.37°N 79.90°E﻿ / 22.37; 79.90Coordinates: 22°22′N 79°54′E﻿ / ﻿22.37°N 79.90°E﻿ / 22.37; 79.90 Country  India State Madhya Pradesh District Seoni Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 480994 Telephone code 07694 ISO 3166 code IN-MP Vehicle registration DOES NOT HAVE A RTO Climate Aw Website dietkeolari.nic.in"
"Keolari is a town and a tehsil in Seoni district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. The confluence of the Wainganga and Sagar rivers is located at Keolari. The town has a District Institute of Education Training Institute (D.I.E.T.)."
"Keolari is named after a kind of paddy ""keolar"" which was profusely produced in this region. Keolari is located at 22°22′N 79°54′E﻿ / ﻿22.37°N 79.90°E﻿ / 22.37; 79.90.[1] It has an average elevation of 447 metres (1466 feet). It is located at the absolute center of the country."
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Keolari had a population of 8,840. Males constitute 4,495, 50.84% of the population and females 4,345, 49.15%. As per District government,[3] Keolari has an average literacy rate of 69.16%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 79.82%, and female literacy is 58.47%. Schools in Keolari include Deep Jyoti Public Higher Secondary School, Bhartiya Gyan Peeth, Saraswati Shishu Mandir, Ramanujan Convent School, Excellence School (formerly Govt. Boys Hr. Sec. School), Gov. Girls Hr. Sec. School, St. Norbert's School and others."
The city has the typical hot and dry temperate of the Great Indian Plateau. Keolari is hot during summers with temperatures up to 44 degree Celsius but the winters are quite comfortable. From the July to September months bring heavy rains with the onset of the South Western monsoon. The October to March window during the winters is suitable for a visit to the city.
Keolari is a railway station on the narrow gauge (2 ft 6 in (762 mm)) line between Jabalpur to the north and Gondia / Balaghat to the south.It is connected to Asia's largest narrow gauge railway station Nainpur. This line is scheduled for conversion to broad gauge as part of the Unigauge Project. Narrow gauge line also branches to Nainpur Mandla in the east and to Nagpur via Chhindwara.
The nearest airports are at Jabalpur (135 km) and Nagpur (180 km).
"Barghat city Barghat Show map of Madhya Pradesh Barghat Show map of India Location in Madhya Pradesh, India Coordinates: 22°02′N 79°43′E﻿ / ﻿22.03°N 79.72°E﻿ / 22.03; 79.72Coordinates: 22°02′N 79°43′E﻿ / ﻿22.03°N 79.72°E﻿ / 22.03; 79.72 Country  India State Madhya Pradesh District Seoni Elevation 537 m (1,762 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 10,425 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 480667 Telephone code 07692-250... ISO 3166 code IN-MP Vehicle registration MP Climate Aw"
"Barghat is a town and a nagar panchayat in Seoni district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India."
Barghat is located at .[1] It has an average elevation of 537 metres (1761 feet).
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Barghat had a population of 20,000 Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Barghat has an average literacy rate of 73%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 56% of the males and 44% of females literate. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age. The market in the barghat area is quite good on festive seasons and every saturday it happened to be a Bazaar. Barghat is also growing in term of the education basis, every year it is providing a young talent to the country. In higher education in the government service or in the Army you will find people everywhere from this town. Emerging market gives lot of opportunity to this market which include the cloth market ,and large production of the mosquito net which are almost been exported to the all major cities in india since long time."
"Nallur (Nalloor) நல்லூர் നലൂർ Town Nallur (Nalloor) Location in Tamil Nadu, India Coordinates: 8°17′46″N 77°13′03″E﻿ / ﻿8.29613°N 77.21747°E﻿ / 8.29613; 77.21747Coordinates: 8°17′46″N 77°13′03″E﻿ / ﻿8.29613°N 77.21747°E﻿ / 8.29613; 77.21747 Country  India State Tamil Nadu District Kanniyakumari Area  • Total 8.50 km2 (3.28 sq mi) Population (2011)  • Total 17,989[1]  • Density 2,116.4/km2 (5,481/sq mi) Languages  • Official Tamil Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration TN-75"
Nallur (Nalloor) is a panchayat town in Kanniyakumari district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.
Nallur is located at 8°17′46″N 77°13′03″E﻿ / ﻿8.29613°N 77.21749°E﻿ / 8.29613; 77.21749
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Nallur had a population of 15,563. Males constitute 50% of the population and females 50%. Nallur has an average literacy rate of 78%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 82%, and female literacy is 74%. In Nallur, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"As of 2011 census, Nalloor Town Panchayat has population of 17,989 of which 8,985 are males while 9,004 are females as per report released by Census India 2011."
"Gondia गोंदिया Gondiya City Nickname(s): Rice City Gondia Location in Maharashtra, India Coordinates: 21°27′35″N 80°11′42″E﻿ / ﻿21.4598°N 80.195°E﻿ / 21.4598; 80.195Coordinates: 21°27′35″N 80°11′42″E﻿ / ﻿21.4598°N 80.195°E﻿ / 21.4598; 80.195 Country  India State Maharashtra District Gondia Government  • Type Local  • Body Municipal Council Area  • Total 30 km2 (10 sq mi) Elevationd 300 m (1,000 ft) Population (2011)[1] (urban agglomeration ≈ 180,000)  • Total 132,821  • Rank 256  • Density 4,400/km2 (11,000/sq mi) Language  • Official Marathi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 441601,441614 Telephone code +91-07182 Vehicle registration MH-35 Sex ratio 991 per 1000 male. ♂/♀ Website gondia.nic.in"
"Gondia also spelt as Gondiya is a major city in the state of Maharashtra in Central India, and is the administrative headquarters of the Gondia District. Gondia is also known as Rice City due to the abundance of rice mills in the area. Gondia is very close to the state of Madhya Pradesh, and is considered the gateway to Maharashtra from Central and Eastern India.There are large number of rice mills and some small scale tobacco industries."
"In ancient time, this region was ruled over by Gond kings. The main business at that time was to collect lak (sealing wax) from Palas tree and gum from Babul tree, gum is called as gond in Hindi, therefore the name Gondia is tagged to the place. Railway Station is big."
Rail
"Gondia railway station is an important junction and has heavy passenger and goods traffic. It is an A-Grade station on Howrah-Mumbai route. The station has seven platforms. All platforms have adequately been provided with amenities such as potable water, tea stalls, benches and waiting sheds. There is a fruit stall and a book stall too. The station is also equipped with A/C waiting rooms for passengers travelling by upper accommodation classes and a waiting hall for passengers travelling by lower accommodation classes."
"Gondia is situated on the broad gauge Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line. The Gondia–Jabalpur Junction (Madhya Pradesh) section of South East Central Railway runs north–south, along the valley of the Wainganga River. The line was formerly narrow gauge (2 ft 6 in (762 mm)) along its entire length, but the section between Gondia and Balaghat was converted to broad gauge in 2005–2006,[2] connecting Balaghat to India's national broad gauge network for the first time. Work is underway to convert the Balaghat–Jabalpur section to broad gauge as well."
"Besides the Super and Express trains,Jabalpur also offer Passenger train services :"
"Jabalpur Junction (Station Code  : JBP), is an important railway junction station of Jabalpur City in Madhya Pradesh. It is the headquarters of West Central Railway. The station is sometimes called the Jabalpur main station. Jabalpur serves as the headquarters of the West Central Railway zone and is one of the busiest railway stations in Madhya Pradesh, Jabalpur being the third largest city of Madhya Pradesh and with no suburban railway system caused the British to build 10 different railway stations across the city to manage the railway traffic and passengers across the city. The Jabalpur station is one of the major stations in the Howrah-Allahabad-Mumbai line (via Bhusawal, Khandwa, Itarsi, Katni, Allahabad, Mughal Sarai, Dhanbad). Construction is under progress for Jabalpur-Nagpur narrow gauge conversion to broad gauge under Indian Railways Project Unigauge."
Other Stations Serving Jabalpur (City) Metropolitan Region
"Major stations within city are Jabalpur Main, Madan mahal,Kachhpura, Bhitoni, Howbagh Jabalpur, Gwarighat Jabalpur, Gosalpur, Devri, Adhartal, Bargi and Bhedghat."
Important Trains
Itarsi Junction (Station Code : ET) is a railway station in Hoshangabad District in Madhya Pradesh which passes more than 330 trains through it. It falls under the West Central Railway zone of Indian Railways network. It is located 18 kilometres (11 mi) away from Hoshangabad. Trains from Central Railway undergo engine changes here i.e. electric engines of WAP/WAM/WAG class are changed to diesel engines of WDP/WDM/WDG class and vice versa. These changes happen for trains which pass through Jabalpur-Katni-Satna railway line and sometimes for trains which pass through Bhopal.
Structure and location
The railway station of Itarsi consist of total 7 platforms. The platform is well furnished to meet up with all the passenger needs and demands.
"The Amarkantak Express (12853/12854) is a daily superfast express train which runs between the Bhopal Junction railway station in Bhopal, the capital city of Madhya Pradesh and Durg, a city in Chhattisgarh state in central India. This train replaced the 8225/8226 Bhopal - Bilaspur Mahanadi Express along with the 8291/8292 Bhopal - Raipur Express and the 1235/1236 Bhopal - Jabalpur Express."
"The name of the train comes from the name of the city Amarkantak, which is a pilgrim town in the Anuppur District from the state of Madhya Pradesh. The Narmada River, which is the largest river in Central India originates near the city."
Arrival and Departure information
"Train no. 12854 departs from Bhopal Junction daily at 3.40 pm, reaching Durg the next day at 07.55 am.Train no. 12853 departs daily from Durg at 6.20 pm reaching Bhopal Junction the next day at 10:30 am.This train takes in all 28 halts before reaching its destination[1]"
Average speed and frequency
This is a daily train service in each direction. The trains operate at an average speed of 54 km/hour.
"The Narmada Express (इंदौर - बिलासपुर नर्मदा एक्सप्रेस / اندور - بيلاسبور نارمادا إكسبرس) is a daily express train which runs between Indore Junction BG railway station of Indore City in the Madhya Pradesh and Bilaspur, a town in Chhattisgarh. The name 'Narmada' signifies the largest river of central India, Narmada River. As the train crosses holy river Narmada, the longest and most important river in Madhya Pradesh, so is named as Narmada Express."
Number and Nomenclature
The number provided for the train is:
18233 - Indore to Bilaspur 18234 - Bilaspur to Indore
Narmada Express departing from Indore
Route and Halts
Another view of departure of Narmada Express
The train goes via. Ujjain Junction - Bhopal Junction - Itarsi Junction - Jabalpur Junction and Anuppur Junction. The important halts of this train are:
Coach composite
The train generally consist of 23 Coaches including:
Speed and Frequency
The train runs with an average speed of 40km/hour. It runs on a daily basis from both sites.
Chhattisgarh Express (18237/18238) is a well known old Indian train which connects Bilaspur and Amritsar. Its name represents the state of Chhattisgarh.
It was first introduced in year 1977 as Bhopal - Bilaspur Chhattisgarh Aanchal Express and used to run between Bilaspur and Habibganj (Bhopal).
"It runs through the states of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab and covers a distance of 2011 km."
"Some of its major halts are : Bilaspur Junction, Raipur Junction, Durg, Gondia Junction, Nagpur, Itarsi Junction, obedullaganj, Bhopal Junction, Jhansi Junction, Gwalior, Agra Cantonment, Mathura Junction, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Ghaziabad, Meerut City, Muzaffarnagar, Deoband, Saharanpur, Jagadhri, Ambala Cantt Junction, Ludhiana Junction, Jalandhar City to Amritsar."
Schedule Arrival/departure
"Train No.18238 leaves for its destination stop, Bilaspur Jn (BSP)from Amritsar Jn (ASR) at 04:15 PM and reach at 12:20 PM on third day. During its return journey This train runs with the No.18237, leaving Bilaspur Jn (BSP) at 02:15 PM and reaching Amritsar Jn (ASR) at 08:10 AM on third day. The longest halt it takes during the journey to and fro is at Amla Jn for around 20-25 Min.[1]"
The Sachkhand Express is operated by Indian Railways daily between the Cities of Huzur Sahib Nanded in Maharashtra to Amritsar in Punjab. This train thus links two famous Sikh shrines. The train is named after Sachkhand Sahib Gurudwara situated in Nanded.
"This train also links the National Capital of India, New Delhi as well as the state capital of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal to Nanded, Jalna and Aurangabad of Marathwada Region of Maharashtra."
Train Route
"It routes and halts at Purna, Parbhani, Jalna, Aurangabad, Manmad, Jalgaon Bhusaval, Burhanpur, Khandwa Junction, Itarsi Junction, Bhopal Junction,Bina Junction, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Dabra, Gwalior, Morena, Dholpur, Agra, Mathura, Faridabad, Hazrat Nizamuddin, New Delhi, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Rajpura, Sirhind, Khanna, Ludhiana, Phagwara, Jalandhar and Beas."
Arrival/ Departure Details
12715 Sachkhand Express leaves H Sahib Nanded (NED) at 09:30 AM to reach its destination Amritsar Jn (ASR) at 08:20 PM next day.[1] 12716 Sachkhand Express leaves Amritsar Jn (ASR) at 05:35 AM and reach back to H Sahib Nanded (NED) at 04:00 PM next day.[2]
Train Composition
"Total Coaches are 24 including 2 -SLR, 3-Second Class, 1-2AC, 4-3AC as 12716 and 1-2AC and 3-3AC as 12715 with additional SLR coach, 1-Pantry and remaining 13 -Sleeper Coaches."
Train History
It was introduced in the year 1995 as a weekly Express train between Nanded and Amritsar. The train was made biweekly and upgraded to its present superfast status in the year 1997 followed by Five days a week in 1998. In the year 2006-2007 the train was declared to be daily operational.
"The train is treated as a holy Train and majority of the people use this train for pilgrimage. Locals in Nanded, Manmad, Bhopal, Gwalior, Delhi and Bhusaval serve langar (free food) in each compartment of the train regardless of the religion of the travelers."
Other links
"Shanti Express is a daily express train offered by Western Railways in India. It runs between Indore Junction of Indore City in the state of Madhya Pradesh and Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat. The name Shanti means 'peace' which reflects the peace messages given by the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi."
Route and halts
"The train goes via Ujjain Junction, Ratlam Junction and Ahemdabad Junction. The important halts through its journey include:"
The train consists of 18 coaches:
Speed and frequency
The train operates daily from both the cities. It runs with an average speed of 50 km/h.
"The Karnataka Express is a daily Superfast train that runs between the Bangalore City, the Capital of Karnataka and the Indian Capital New Delhi. It is one of the most demanded trains, joining New Delhi to South India. It is also one of the most regular and punctual trains."
"This train was introduced as a bi-weekly for initial years, and then existed as a tri-weekly train for some later years. The Karnataka Express and Kerala Express ran merged up to Jolarpettai and was popular called as KK. It ran via Bhopal, Nagpur, Vijaywada and Jolarpettai. In the remaining two days of the week, it was merged with the Andhra Pradesh Express. In 1987 Kerala Express was bifurcated from this train. Karnataka Express then ran via Guntakal, Secunderabad. Later it was diverted via Wadi, Daund, Manmad, Bhusaval, Itarsi and Bhopal which is its current route."
Karnataka Express - AC First Class coach
"The train passes through the states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan (a small portion while passing Dhaulpur), Haryana and Delhi. Thus, after leaving Bangalore City, the train halts at Bangalore Cantt, Yelahanka, Hindupur, Sri Satya Sai Prashanti Nilayam, Dharmavaram, Anantpur, Gooty, Guntakal, Adoni, Manthralayam Road, Raichur,Yadgir, Wadi, Gulbarga, Solapur, Kurduwadi, Daund, Ahmednagar, Belapur, Kopargaon, Manmad, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Burhanpur, Khandwa, Itarsi, Bhopal, Bina, Jhansi, Gwalior, Agra Cantt, Mathura, Hazrat Nizamuddin and finally terminates at New Delhi."
Coach compsition
"Generally, trains have one 1AC,two IIAC,three 3AC and 13 sleeper coaches. They also have pantry cars and on board catering. The Karnataka express has 24 coaches."
Accidents
"This train met with an accident in 1991 in the Makalidurga Ghats at about 50 km (31 mi) from Bangalore on a rainy evening, killing 30 people.[1]"
"Parbhani Junction railway station is a rebuilding and getting large.And one of large connecting junction to major cities of india. Parbhani district, Marathwada region of Maharashtra . Its code is PBN. It serves Parbhani city. The station consists of 3 platforms. The platform is well sheltered. It is one of busiest railway station in South Central railway. And situated in front of Marathwada Agricultural University. [1][2][3][4]"
"The station is situated on Secunderabad-Manmad section of South Central Railway Zone. The town has connectivity to major cities of Maharashtra such as Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune . It is also connected to other Indian cities like New Delhi, Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Vishakapatnam and Chennai."
Major trains
NOTE: This train has a technical halt at Dudh Sagar[DDS] Waterfalls though it is not an official halt.
"The Goa Express is a daily superfast train run by Indian Railways connecting Vasco da Gama, and Hazrat Nizamuddin in New Delhi. It is one of the high priority superfast trains of Indian Railways and also a very important train for Hubli division of South Western Railway."
"This train is similar to trains like Karnataka Express and Andhra Pradesh Express amongst others in providing convenient link between respective state capitals and New Delhi. Vasco da Gama (IR Code: VSG) is the nearest railhead to the capital of Goa, Panjim. Panjim is not directly accessible by rail."
"The train was introduced around 1987. At the time of introduction, rail links into Goa were Meter Gauge. Hence the train ran with a Broad Gauge and a Meter Gauge counterpart, the MG section between Vasco da Gama and Miraj, and the BG section between Miraj and Hazrat Nizamuddin. At the time of introduction the train was numbered 2479/2480, with maintenance in Delhi Division of Northern Railway. Post gauge-conversion when the BG train ran the entire route, the train's maintenance was transferred to the Hubli division of the present day South Western Railway, and renumbered as 12779/12780."
Route
"Goa Express was introduced long before Konkan Railways became operational. Thus the train routes via, Margao, Londa, Belgaum, Miraj, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Daund, Manmad, Bhusawal, Khandwa, Itarsi, Bhopal, Jhansi, Gwalior, Agra and Mathura ."
12780 GOA EXPRESS H Nizamuddin - Vasco Da Gama (Daily)[2]
"The Banas is a river of Rajasthan state in western India. It is a tributary of the Chambal River, which in turn flows into the Yamuna, a tributary of the Ganges. The Banas is approximately 512 kilometres in length.[1] It is also known as 'Van Ki Asha' (Hope of forest)."
"The Banas originates in the Khamnor Hills of the Aravalli Range, about 5 km from Kumbhalgarh in Rajsamand district. It flows northeast through the Mewar region of Rajasthan, and meets the Chambal near the village of Rameshwar in Sawai Madhopur District.[2] The cities of Nathdwara, Jahajpur, and Tonk lie on the river. Major tributaries include the right bank tributaries of Berach and Menali and the left bank tributaries of Kothari, Khari, Dai, Dheel River, Sohadara, Morel and Kalisil.[3]"
"The Banas drains a basin of 45,833 km², and lies entirely within Rajasthan. It is a seasonal river that dries up during the summer, but it is nonetheless used for irrigation.[4] The Bisalpur-Jaipur project completed by the Government of Rajasthan in 2009 provides drinking water from the Banas to Jaipur city.[5] Banas drains the east slope of the central portion of the Aravalli Range, and the basin includes all or part of Ajmer, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Jaipur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, and Udaipur districts.[6] The Thala ki Mata temple near Deoli in Tonk district is located on its bank."
Banas River
"Digital zoom is a method of decreasing the apparent angle of view of a digital photographic or video image. Digital zoom is accomplished by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original, and usually also interpolating the result back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. It is accomplished electronically, with no adjustment of the camera's optics, and no optical resolution is gained in the process.[1]"
"When comparing the image quality achieved by digital zoom with image quality achieved by resizing the image in post-processing, there's a difference between cameras that perform potentially lossy image compression like JPEG and those that save images in an always lossless Raw image format. In the former case, digital zoom tends to be superior to enlargement in post-processing, because the camera may apply its interpolation before detail is lost to compression. In the latter case, resizing in post-production yields results equal or superior to digital zoom."
"Modest camera phones use only digital zoom and have no optical zoom at all. Usually cameras have an optical zoom lens, but apply digital zoom automatically once its longest optical focal length has been reached. Professional cameras generally do not feature digital zoom."
Undeteriorated (optical+digital) zoom limit
"The optical zoom cameras can be set first before its maximum and then followed by its digital zoom in video mode only, but most of the cameras use the digital zoom after the optical zoom reach the maximum for photo and video. Digital zoom use the center area of the optical image to enlarge the image. By reducing the MP image size, using digital zoom can be done without image deterioration and some cameras has Undeteriorated image mode or at least has Image deterioration indicator.[2][3]"
The table below give Undeteriorated (optical+digital) zoom limit for some MP image size of a certain camera with Optical zoom 24x and Digital zoom 4x for its maximum capability:
"When using digital zoom for photo, the Undeteriorated digital zoom limit is 1.3x, 1.8x and 2.25x respectively for 10MP, 5MP and 3MP, but when using VGA, the image quality is always good under Undeteriorated digital zoom limit, because the digital zoom is only maximum 4x, while the limit is 7.2x, but some cameras with 16MP have digital zoom up to 7.2x or using the capability to the edge for VGA. The table above has also shown that from 3MP jumps directly too much too VGA and this camera has no option of 2MP (1920x1080) and 1.3MP, but other cameras have it.[4]"
"When using digital zoom for video, the camera can take up to 382.6x magnification in VGA with Deteriorated image quality, and up to 172.8x with Undeteriorated image quality. But because video take multiframes per second, so between Deteriorated image quality and Undeteriorated image quality will be not much different.[5]"
"Nowadays cameras usually have iZoom (intelligent zoom) with usually additional magnification 2x of its optical zoom, but some cameras have 2 options: 1.4x and 2.0x. The iZoom use only center of the lens and not make any interpolation to original full resolution, so it save its good images quality (optical zoom) in reduced resolution. The terms among camera manufacturers are “Smart Zoom” (Sony), “Safe Zoom” (Canon) and “Intelligent Zoom” (Panasonic and others).[6] There is also camera with digital zoom 7.2x and smartzoom with approximately 30x total zoom (optical zoom 20x and digital zoom 1.5x) for 7MP from 16MP total resolution and also 144x total zoom (optical zoom 20x and digital zoom 7.2x) for VGA 640x480.[7]"
Kanpur and Lucknow were the two cities between which the first STD call of the country was made.
"Land line numbers are at most 8 digits long (usually in major metros). The total length of all phone numbers (STD code and the phone number) in India is constant at 10 digits, for example 7513200000 signifies a STD code i.e. 751 Gwalior & the phone number 3200000. Due to the availability of multiple operators offering fixed line services (either over wire or wireless), there is an operator-code for each telephone number, which is the first digit in the phone number. These are:"
Mobile numbers
"A typical mobile number in India is ""+91-XXXX-XXXXXX"". Where the first four digits indicates the network operator and telecom circle, while the remaining six digits are unique to the subscriber."
Telemarketing
Telemarketers have been issued 10-digit telephone numbers starting with 140 (140XXXXXXX) by the Department of Telecommunications on TRAI's request.[3][4]
Fixed (landline) numbers
"Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD) codes are assigned to each city/town/village, with the larger Metro cities having shorter area codes (STD codes), the shortest being 2 digits. For example,"
"Dhundhar, also known as Jaipur region, is a historical region of Rajasthan state in western India. It includes the districts of Jaipur, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, and Tonk and the northern part of Karauli District."
"The region lies in east-central Rajasthan, and is bounded by the Aravalli Range on the northwest, Ajmer to the west, Mewar region to the southwest, Hadoti region to the south, and Alwar, Bharatpur, and Karauli districts to the east."
"In 1900, at the times of Jaipur Kingdom, region had a total area of 15,579 square miles (40,349 km²)."
"The southern and central portions of the region lie in the basin of the Banas River and its tributaries, including the Dhund River, which gives its name to the region. The northern portion of the region is drained by the Ban Ganga River, which originates in Jaipur district and flows east to join the Yamuna in Uttar Pradesh state."
"The state of Jaipur was earlier knows as Amber or Dhundhar and was ruled by Meena tribe, who held a fortress at Naen. later a Kachhwaha prince destroyed the sovereignty of Naen.[1]"
Generally liberal policies of the rulers permitted Jainism to flourish at Amber and later at Jaipur.
Network Operators
"All mobile numbers in India starts with 9, 8 or 7, this includes pager services, but the use of pagers is on the decline. Each telecom circle is allowed to have multiple private operators, earlier it was 2 private + BSNL/MTNL, subsequently it changed to 3 private + BSNL/MTNL in GSM, now each telecom circle has more than 10 operators including BSNL/MTNL."
9xxx Series
Note:- The mobile numbers and operators are subject to change since Mobile number portability is available in most circles.[4] Note:- The Series of BSNL GSM (Cellone) 9473 are available in Bihar (94730 to 94734) and U.P. East (94735 to 94739) Telecom Circle.
"All mobile phone numbers are 10 digits long. The way to split the numbers is defined in the National Numbering Plan 2003 as XXXX-NNNNNN where XXXX indicates the network operator and telecom circle, and NNNNNN is the subscriber numbers."
8xxx Series
"The Department of Telecommunications has divided India into various telecom circle such that within each circle, the call is treated as a local call, while across zones, it becomes a long-distance call. A telecom circle is normally the entire state, with a few exceptions like Mumbai and Kolkata (which are different zones than their respective states), Goa (which is a part of the Maharashtra zone), Chhattisgarh (which is part of Madhya Pradesh), Jharkhand (which is a part of the Bihar zone) or Uttar Pradesh (divided into multiple zones). Delhi is a unique circle because it includes towns from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as well. Recent formation of the new state of Telangana has been separated from Andhra Pradesh state which will still remain in the same circle."
7xxx Series
"At present, there are 22 telecom circles or service areas. They are classified into 4 categories: Metro, A, B, C. Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata fall under Metro category. Chennai service area doesn't come under Metro category, as it has been a part of Tamil Nadu service circle since 2007.[2]"
"Lapanga city Lapanga Show map of Odisha Lapanga Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°44′N 84°01′E﻿ / ﻿21.73°N 84.02°E﻿ / 21.73; 84.02Coordinates: 21°44′N 84°01′E﻿ / ﻿21.73°N 84.02°E﻿ / 21.73; 84.02 Country  India State Odisha District Sambalpur Population (2001)  • Total 7,354 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Lapanga is a census town in Sambalpur district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Lapanga had a population of 7,354. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Lapanga has an average literacy rate of 61%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 70%, and female literacy is 50%. In Lapanga, 16% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Bhojpur town Bhojpur Show map of Odisha Bhojpur Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°39′0″N 84°24′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.65000°N 84.40000°E﻿ / 21.65000; 84.40000Coordinates: 21°39′0″N 84°24′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.65000°N 84.40000°E﻿ / 21.65000; 84.40000 Country  India State Odisha District Sambalpur Elevation 269 m (883 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OR- Website odisha.gov.in"
"Bhojpur is a village in Sambalpur district, Odisha, India."
"It is located at 21°39′0″N 84°24′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.65000°N 84.40000°E﻿ / 21.65000; 84.40000, at an elevation of 269 m above MSL.[1]"
National Highway 200 passes through Bhojpur. It is 13 km from Kuchinda.
"Lakhanpur village Lakhanpur Show map of Odisha Lakhanpur Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°46′0″N 83°46′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.76667°N 83.76667°E﻿ / 21.76667; 83.76667Coordinates: 21°46′0″N 83°46′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.76667°N 83.76667°E﻿ / 21.76667; 83.76667 Country  India State Odisha District Jharsuguda Languages  • Official Odia Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD 23 Website odisha.gov.in"
"Lakhanpur is a tehsil in Jharsuguda district, Odisha, India."
It is located at 21°46′0″N 83°46′0″E﻿ / ﻿21.76667°N 83.76667°E﻿ / 21.76667; 83.76667.[1]
National Highway 200 passes through Lakhanpur.
Places of interest
"The Koilighugar Waterfall, around 200 ft in height, is in the Lakhanpur, near the village Kushmelbahal. The waterfall is in a rivulet named 'Ahiraj' which originates from the 'Chhuikhanch' forest. After the fall the rivulet flows west wards to merge into the river Mahanadi. It is a picturesque beauty spot with its sylvan back drop."
"Inside the fall there is a Shivalingam known as 'Maheswarnath'. The lingam is submerged in water and is not ordinarily visible. For the benefit of the pilgrims, another Sivalingam has been created outside the waterfall."
"Lakhanpur, Odisha"
"Bhatli Rurban Bhatli Show map of Odisha Bhatli Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°27′51″N 83°32′43″E﻿ / ﻿21.46409°N 83.545189°E﻿ / 21.46409; 83.545189Coordinates: 21°27′51″N 83°32′43″E﻿ / ﻿21.46409°N 83.545189°E﻿ / 21.46409; 83.545189 Country  India State Odisha District Bargarh Languages  • Official Oriya  • Dialect kosali language Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 768030"
"Bhatli is a town in Bargarh district, Odisha."
"Bhatli is located in Western Odisha, close to the border of neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh. It is positioned at 21°31′34″N 82°53′24″E﻿ / ﻿21.526°N 82.890°E﻿ / 21.526; 82.890. The whole of Bargarh district lies in the Deccan plateau with Eastern Ghats running close to the town. As per the earthquake zoning of India, Bhatli falls in the zone 2 category, the least earthquake prone zone."
Educational institute
"Dadhibaman College, Bhatli[1] (Affiliated to Sambalpur University.It is the only college of the town."
"Major employment source of people, is agricultural activities.A significant population of weaver community is engage in Handloom activities, producing famous sambalpuri saree.[4]"
Health services
"State Government Community Health Centre is providing primary health service to this area. Navjeeban Hospital Headed by Dr Sunil, is the only private hospital serving the Bhatli locality. NGO like Abhyudaya is working for sustainable health care by alternative remedies. These organizations creates awareness on harmful effects of chemical farming, poisoning food system and water."
Fastivals
Ratha-Yatra is a fastival ofLord Jagannath and its functionalities is in the same way and in line with Puri Jagannath Temple Ratha-Yatra. It is famous in the whole Bargarh District. Local devotee come with enthusiasm and pay tribute by pulling the ratha to the Rathadanda Padia.
"Bhatli is one of the block of 314 developmental block of Odisha. It is a tehsil. It is a constituent assembly for Odisha Legislative Assembly, Bhatli Constituency. It is also a Gram Panchayat of Panchayati Raj Institution of the tier 3 governace pattern of India. Its district headquarter is Bargarh."
Temple
Dadhibaman temple
Khatushyam Temple
Place of sttraction
Nearest to this place is Debrigarh Wildlife Sanctuary.
Tirathpur Tirathpur Coordinates: 30°17′N 72°23′E﻿ / ﻿30.29°N 72.39°E﻿ / 30.29; 72.39 Country  Pakistan Province Punjab (Pakistan) Elevation 156 m (512 ft) Time zone PST (UTC+5)
Tirathpur is a town of Sahiwal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is located at 30°29'0N 72°39'0E with an altitude of 156 metres (515 feet). Neighbouring settlements include Agra and Sikhanwala.[1]
Tirathpur
"Khaliapali city Khaliapali Show map of Odisha Khaliapali Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°22′20″N 83°37′04″E﻿ / ﻿21.3723°N 83.6178°E﻿ / 21.3723; 83.6178Coordinates: 21°22′20″N 83°37′04″E﻿ / ﻿21.3723°N 83.6178°E﻿ / 21.3723; 83.6178 Country  India State Odisha District Bargarh Population (2001)  • Total 5,257 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Khaliapali is a census town in Bargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Khaliapali had a population of 5257. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Khaliapali has an average literacy rate of 76%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 83%, and female literacy is 68%. In Khaliapali, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Temri ଟେମରୀ टेमरी village Nickname(s): Temari Temri Show map of Odisha Temri Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°0′42″N 82°53′45″E﻿ / ﻿21.01167°N 82.89583°E﻿ / 21.01167; 82.89583Coordinates: 21°0′42″N 82°53′45″E﻿ / ﻿21.01167°N 82.89583°E﻿ / 21.01167; 82.89583 Country  India State Odisha District Bargarh Elevation 205 m (673 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 2,093 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 768039 Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Temri (also known as Temari) is a village Gram panchayat of Paikmal block and Padampur subdivision in Bargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
Geography
Main Festivals
"William Wordsworth (7 April 1770 – 23 April 1850) was a major English Romantic poet who, with Samuel Taylor Coleridge, helped to launch the Romantic Age in English literature with their joint publication Lyrical Ballads (1798)."
"""PPAP (Pen-Pineapple-Apple-Pen)"" (Japanese: ペンパイナッポーアッポーペン, Hepburn: Penpainappōappōpen) is a single by Pikotaro, a fictional singer-songwriter created and portrayed by Japanese comedian Daimaou Kosaka.[1][2] It was released as a music video on YouTube on 25 August 2016, and has since become a viral video. As of 7 November 2016, the official video has been viewed over 90 million times,[3] spawned parodies, and being hailed as the new ""Gangnam Style"" by various newspapers and online media. The single itself reached number 1 on the Billboard Japan Hot 100 chart and became the shortest single to chart in the Billboard Hot 100."
"Jharbandh ଝାରବନ୍ଧ झारबन्ध small city Jharbandh Show map of Odisha Jharbandh Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°55′N 82°49′E﻿ / ﻿20.917°N 82.817°E﻿ / 20.917; 82.817Coordinates: 20°55′N 82°49′E﻿ / ﻿20.917°N 82.817°E﻿ / 20.917; 82.817 Country  India State Odisha District Bargarh Elevation 265 m (869 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 3,916 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 768042 Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Jharbandh is a town in Bargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"Jharbandh is located at 21°02′N 82°28′E﻿ / ﻿21.03°N 82.47°E﻿ / 21.03; 82.47. It has an average elevation of 265 metres (869 ft). It is almost 132 kilometres (82 mi) from its district headquarters, Bargarh. It is about 502 kilometres (312 mi) from its capital city of Bhubaneshwar. Jharbandh is a block of Padampur subdivision,distance from Jharbandh to Padampur is about 56 kilometres (35 mi). The area around Jharbandh is rain-fed and hence is prone to frequent droughts. The Gandhamardhan hills is about 32 kilometres (20 mi) away and forms the borders between Bargarh and Balangir districts. Till date the beautiful locale has not been spoiled by industrialisation, but the per capita income is very low. Nrusinghanath Temple of Gandhamardhan hills is almost famous in all over the Orissa for lord Nrusingha."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Jharbandh had a population of 2200. This is little low to compare with males population. Jharbandh has an literacy rate about nearly 61%."
"Current MLA from Padmapur Assembly Constituency is Bijaya Ranjan Singh Bariha of BJD, who won the seat in State elections in 2009.[2] He also won this seat earlier for BJD in 2000 and for JD in 1995 and in 1990. Other previous MLAs from this seat were Satya Narayan Sahu of INC who won this seat in 2004, in 1985 for INC and in 1980 representing INC(I)"
Politicians
"Bijepur (Odia: ବିଜେପୁର) Town Bijepur (Odia: ବିଜେପୁର) Show map of Odisha Bijepur (Odia: ବିଜେପୁର) Show map of India Location in Bargarh, Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°07′N 83°17′E﻿ / ﻿21.12°N 83.28°E﻿ / 21.12; 83.28Coordinates: 21°07′N 83°17′E﻿ / ﻿21.12°N 83.28°E﻿ / 21.12; 83.28 Country  India State Odisha District Bargarh Elevation 189 m (620 ft) Population (N/A)  • Total Approximate population for 7 km radius: 31,253 Languages  • Official Odia Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 768032 Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
"Bijepur (Oriya: ବିଜେପୁର), is a town and a block in Bargarh district in the state of Odisha, India."
"Bijepur is a populated place in the region of western Odisha, the country of India with an average elevation of 189 meter above sea level. Which is situated in Padampur sub-division and about 26 km south-east of Bargarh town. The area is mildly densely populated with 253 people per km2. The nearest town larger than 50,000 inhabitants takes about 0:42 hour by local transportation."
Bijepur zamidar
"Bijepur was the erstwhile headquarters of a Zamindari known as Uttal-Baisi. Bijepur is renowned for its shawls, garments, bedsheets and traditional mats. Bijepur, A zamindari in the Bargarh, extending over 83 square miles. It was originally a Gond chiefship, but Maharaj Sai, the then Raja of Sambalpur, made a grant of it to one Gopi Padhan (Kulita) as a reward for loyal .service. Subsequently, the grant was confirmed by the British Government 1863 when the title of Gartia was conferred on its Chief and a quit-rent of RS 350 fixed for a term of 40 years. That term expired in 1903, and a takoli or feudal tribute was fixed at Rs 3305. The net income of the Zamindari was Rs.13,769."
Nature
Bijepur Rapta
"Bijepur has a humid (> 0.65 p/pet) climate. The land area is totally cultivated, not much natural vegetation is left. The landscape is mostly covered with irrigated croplands. The climate is classified as a tropical savanna (winter dry season), with a subtropical moist forest biozone . The soil in the area is high in lixisols (lx), soil with clay-enriched lower horizon, low cec, and high saturation of bases."
Natural hazards
"Bijepur can have low impact (v or less) earthquakes (on average one every 50 years), with occurrences at <5 Richter. When an earthquake occurs, it may be felt indoors by many people, outdoors by a few people during the day. At night, some people may be awakened. There is a medium-high occurrence of periods with extreme drought. Flooding risk is medium. There is a low chance of cyclones hitting Bijepur."
Demographics
"As of India census, Bijepur had a population of 31,253 (Approximate population for 7 km radius). Males constitute 50% of the population and females also 50%. Bijepur has an average literacy rate of 53%, less than the national average of 59.5%. Other than the Sambalpuri(Kosali) speaking people who form the majority. Within the Sambalpuri speaking population, the major communities are Kuiltas, Dumals Agharias, Bhulias/Mehers (the weavers), Brahmins etc. Kuiltas and Dumals are presumed to be an offshoot of the original Chasa(agrarian) community and is synonymous with the Khandayats of the coastal region. This is evident by the striking similarity of rituals and the gods they pray. Bhulias were migrated to and settled in this region by some rulers, but the exact time period is controversial. Agharias were migrated from the mughal empire of Agra for establishing a cultivator community during war when Kuiltas were assigned the duty of part-time Kshatriyas. Sambalpuri is the language for communication. Oriya and English are used for official purposes and for higher education."
"Nuakhai (Nabarna) is the main festival of Bijepur. Bijepur celebrates Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Ananta Puja, Car Festival (Ratha Yatra), Ram Leela & Krishna every year. Krishna is an open stage dramatization with virtually the whole town as a stage, with the universal theme of ‘triumph of good over evil’. It depicts the mythological story of Krishna starting from marriage of his parents till the death of Kansa, the evil king. For this whole period, the town turns into the mythological city of Mathura with Kansa (played by an artist) ‘ruling’ over it."
Economics
"The economy of Bijepur is largely dependent on agricultural products. The daily vegetable market of Bijepur is claimed to be the largest vegetable origin in this Block. ""SAMBALPURI SAREES"" originated from Here. Ikkat Hand wooven sarees and other Sambalpuri clothes are made in Bijepur."
"Bijepur College, Bijepur Saraswati Sishu Vidya Mandir Govt. Girls High School Govt. High School Arobinda Inter Education Sankarshan Govt. UP SChool Boys Primary school Girls UG UP school Ananda Marga"
Indian freedom fighter
"Parbati Giri, nicknamed as the Mother Teresa of Western Odisha, was a prominent female freedom fighter from Odisha, India. The women freedom fighters of Odisha played a significant role in the Indian Freedom Struggle. Giri was born in Samlaipadar village near Bijepur of the present Bargarh district and undivided Sambalpur district on 19 January 1926. Due to her anti-British government activities, she was imprisoned for two years. Parbati Giri was just 16 when she was in the forefront of agitation following Mahatma Gandhi’s “Quit India” call. She continued to serve the nation socially after independence. She opened an orphanage at Paikmal village and devoted rest of her life for the welfare of orphans."
Bijepur Tehsil
Rajkanika Town Country India State Odisha District Kendrapara Tehsil Kanika Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD-29 Website odisha.gov.in
"[1] Rajkanika is a town and one of the 314 blocks of the Indian state Odisha. Situated in Kanika tehsil, is famous for the BhitarKanika crocodile sanctuary. It's also famous due its beauty and the Palace built around a century ago by the king of then Kanika Raja R N Bhanjadeo."
"Rajkanika was known as the Kanika rajya before independence and the last king of Kanika was Raja Rajendra Narayana Bhanjadeo. After independence, it was under undivided Cuttack district and declared as a block consisting of 29 gram panchayatas."
There are several stories regarding the empire of Kanika in the history of Odisha. The soldiers of Kanika were brave warriors at those times. The royal administrations was famous for its great and nice ruling. Every people of Kanika (the ancient Rajkanika) feels proud being people of this brave soil.
"Rajkanika was affected by natural calamities several times and recovered easily by the patience and bravery people of this soil. The worst known calamities were cyclones and floods in 1971, 1983, 1999. The block was severely hit by the March 31 tornado of 2009, killing several people across 11 villages.[2]"
"Rajkanika is surrounded by rivers in three sides, the rivers are Brahmani, Baitarani, and Kharashrota. It is the north end block of Kendrapara district and nearer to Bhadrak and Jajpur District. Its northern end starts from village Gualigan and ends at Bharigada village in the south and starts from Jayanagar in the east to Gopalpur in the west. [3]"
"The block headquarters is Rajkanika which is a small town. Rajkanika is under the administration of Kanika tahasil. It has a police station, a panchayat samiti office, block office, a fire station, Irrigation office etc. as the offices of the Odisha state under the Republic of India. It is under the district administration of Kendrapara district. Rajkanika comes under the Aul electoral constituency for state assembly and represented by Mr Debendra Sharma as the M.L.A. and under Kendrapara constituency for the Indian Parliament represented by Mr. Baijayanta Panda as M.P. Rajkanika. [4]"
"Rajkanika is well connected from the state capital Bhubaneswar and the silvercity Cuttack by road. More than thirty buses are available from Cuttack to Rajkanika via different routes, private taxis and cabs are available from Cuttack which is a three hours drive from Cuttack. The nearest Railway stations are Bhadrak (55 km), Cuttack (98 km), Dhamara (60 km) and the nearest airport is Bhubaneswar (120 km), intra state water route is also present."
Education
"Rajkanika has the good access towards education from primary level to graduation level after graduation there is less scope for post graduate studies. There are four colleges named as S.N. College, Rajkanika,[5] Olaver college, Olaver, Katana college, Katana, and Hatsahi College, Hatsahi. There are several High Schools among which R. N. Highschool is the oldest one which was established in the year 1918 by Raja Rajendra Narayana Bhanjadeo. Some other well known High Schools are Panchayat High School, Jaynagar; Kanika High School, Aayatana; Olaver Highschool, Olaver; PegarPara high school, PegarPara; Mahurigan Govt. high school, Mahurigan; Panchayata high school, Bharigada; Tarasa High school, Tarasa; Laxmi Baraha Anchalika High School, Barunadiha; T.K High School, Katana; Girl's High school, Patarapur; Charidesh Girl's High school, Bajpur; Namatara High School, Kandia High School and JORAL PM School; etc. There are also a vast access to primary education in both govt. and non govt. schools."
The main tourist attractions are:
"Another place of attraction is the majestic palace of Kanika built in the 18th century. Many temples are present such as Lord Nrushinghanath Temple, Lord Gopinath Temple, Maa Dakshina Kali Temple, Laxmi Narayana Temple, Gopaljew Temple, Gokenswar Temple, Maa Sidheswari Temple (Thakuranipal), Radhakanta Temple (Giria), Basulai (Bajarapur), etc. which can be visited."
"There is a village in Rajkanika named as Sialia where no doors are present in any house, people say that it is because of the wish of the goddesh Maa Kharakhai who is worshipped by the people."
Notable people
It's honoured to give birth freedom fighters Bishu and Basuni.
Rajkanika
"Jaipatna ଜୟପାଟଣା town Jaipatna Show map of Odisha Jaipatna Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 19°28′14″N 82°59′50″E﻿ / ﻿19.47056°N 82.99722°E﻿ / 19.47056; 82.99722Coordinates: 19°28′14″N 82°59′50″E﻿ / ﻿19.47056°N 82.99722°E﻿ / 19.47056; 82.99722 Country  India State Odisha District Kalahandi Population (2001)  • Total 108,531 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Sex ratio 49:51 ♂/♀ Website odisha.gov.in"
Jaipatna is one of the Town in Jayapatna Tehsil in Kalahandi District in Odisha State.This town is maintaining 78 km distance from its District main city Bhawanipatna and 500 km far from its State capital Bhubaneswar.The town is surrounded by the Eastern Ghatsrange.
History
"It is one of the oldest town in Kalahandi district and is home to the Indravati Irrigation Dam ( Mangalpur Dam) on Hati Nadi.This town is situated near tourist spot Mukhiguda which is famous for Indravati Power Plant(Hydroelectricity Power Generator) in Kalahandi District.Talgud Sakti Pith is one of the oldest temples around the area.The Indravati Project is only 7 km from Jaipatna.Jaipatna has a very nice scenic view. It is surrounded by rich cultivated green ground.This placed was recognized by name ""JAMGUDA"".Later on its name changes to ""JAIPATNA""."
Demographics
"According to the Census of India 2001,Total Population of Jaipatna was 108,531.where 49% of male and 51% of female living. Jaipana had a total literacy population was 36,310,from which male literacy population was 26,027 and fimale literacy population 10,583."
Indravati College (+2) Indravati Mahavidyalaya (+3)
"Subalaya Sublia town Subalaya Show map of Odisha Subalaya Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°53′N 84°10′E﻿ / ﻿20.883°N 84.167°E﻿ / 20.883; 84.167Coordinates: 20°53′N 84°10′E﻿ / ﻿20.883°N 84.167°E﻿ / 20.883; 84.167 Country  India State Odisha District Subarnapur Area  • Total 3.32950 km2 (1.28553 sq mi) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OR- Nearest city Birmaharajpur, Rairakhol Lok Sabha constituency Balangir Climate Rainy, hot,cold (Köppen) Avg. summer temperature 45–50 °C (113–122 °F) Avg. winter temperature 20–25 °C (68–77 °F) Website odisha.gov.in"
"Subalaya is a town in the Birmaharajpur subdivision of Subarnapur district, Odisha, India. It is an island 822.738 acres (3.32950 km2) in size[1] located at the meeting place of the Mahanadi river and Surubalijora.[2]"
"This town is home to Subalaya High School and Subalaya College. Recently ""NISHTHA"" a non-government organization along with smile foundation has established a school for providing remedial education to school-going children.[3]"
External links
"Haridaspur ହରିଦାସପୁର town Haridaspur Show map of Odisha Haridaspur Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°44′0″N 86°7′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.73333°N 86.11667°E﻿ / 20.73333; 86.11667Coordinates: 20°44′0″N 86°7′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.73333°N 86.11667°E﻿ / 20.73333; 86.11667 Country  India State Odisha District Cuttack Elevation 122 m (400 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OR- Coastline 0 kilometres (0 mi) Nearest city Cuttack Climate Tropical monsoon (Köppen) Avg. summer temperature 35 °C (95 °F) Avg. winter temperature 20 °C (68 °F) Website odisha.gov.in"
"Haridaspur(odia:ହରିଦାସପୁର) is a town in Cuttack district, Odisha, India."
It is located at an elevation of 122 m above MSL.[1]
Location
National Highway 5A starts from Haridaspur. Haridaspur has a railway station and falls on the Cuttack-Jajpur route.
"Saraipali city Nickname(s): SPL Saraipali Show map of Chhattisgarh Saraipali Show map of India Location in Chhattisgarh, India Coordinates: 21°20′N 83°00′E﻿ / ﻿21.33°N 83.0°E﻿ / 21.33; 83.0Coordinates: 21°20′N 83°00′E﻿ / ﻿21.33°N 83.0°E﻿ / 21.33; 83.0 Country  India State Chhattisgarh District Mahasamund Government  • Type Nagar Palika  • Body Nagar Palika Parishad Saraipali Population (2011)  • Total 20,118 Languages  • Official Hindi, Chhattisgarhi, Sambalpuri, Marwari Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) 493558 493558 Vehicle registration CG"
Saraipali is a city and a municipality in Mahasamund district in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh.
"Saraipali is located on the border of Chhattisgarh and Orrissa in the Mahasamund district, 157 kilometres (98 mi) east of the state capital, Raipur. The nearest towns are Basna (20 kilometres (12 mi) west), Padampur (37 kilometres (23 mi) south), Bargarh (66 kilometres (41 mi) east) Sarsiwan (40 kilometres (25 mi) north) and Sarangarh (40 kilometres (25 mi) north). It is one of the fastest growing towns in the Mahasamund district and as of the 2011 census had a population of approximately 20,118. The town does not have an airport or a railway station but there are many bus routes connecting with other towns and cities. Saraipali has many banks, finance and insurance companies, vehicle showrooms and other shops, although there is no mall."
Education
"New Creation International School IEMBH School Pratibha Public School (Hindi+English) KG Convent Eng. Med School St. Vincent Palloti Eng. School Eva's Woodland Eng. Med. School St. Stephen's Model Eng. School Eklavya Eng. Med. School Sharda Public School Genesis English Med. School, Nawagarh"
Localities and places of worship
Shree Durga Mata Temple Gayatri Mata Temple Panchwn Shiv Mandir Shree Ram Mandir Temple Laxmi Narayan Temple Lord Shiva Temple Sai Baba Temple Shiva temple jhilmila Shani Dev Temple Radha Krishna Temple Shree Guru Singh Sabha
"There are many other Churches, Mosques and Gurdwaras serving various religious groups"
"As of 2011 India,[1] Saraipali had a population of 20118. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Saraipali has an average literacy rate of 69%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 77%, and female literacy is 63%. In Saraipali, 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"The Silence of the Lambs Theatrical release poster Directed by Jonathan Demme Produced by Kenneth Utt Edward Saxon Ron Bozman Screenplay by Ted Tally Based on The Silence of the Lambs by Thomas Harris Starring Jodie Foster Anthony Hopkins Scott Glenn Ted Levine Music by Howard Shore Cinematography Tak Fujimoto Edited by Craig McKay Production company Strong Heart/Demme Production Distributed by Orion Pictures Release dates January 30, 1991 (1991-01-30) (New York City) February 14, 1991 (1991-02-14) (United States) Running time 118 minutes[1] Country United States Language English Budget $19 million[2] Box office $272.7 million[2]"
"The Silence of the Lambs is a 1991 American horror-thriller film directed by Jonathan Demme and starring Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, and Scott Glenn.[3] Adapted by Ted Tally from the 1988 novel of the same name by Thomas Harris, his second to feature the character of Dr. Hannibal Lecter; a brilliant psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer, the film was the second adaptation of a Harris novel featuring Lecter, preceded by the Michael Mann-directed Manhunter in 1986. In the film, Clarice Starling, a young U.S. FBI trainee, seeks the advice of the imprisoned Dr. Lecter to apprehend another serial killer, known only as ""Buffalo Bill""."
"Purunakatak town Maa Bhairabi temple Purunakatak Show map of Odisha Purunakatak Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°38′0″N 84°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.63333°N 84.43333°E﻿ / 20.63333; 84.43333Coordinates: 20°38′0″N 84°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.63333°N 84.43333°E﻿ / 20.63333; 84.43333 Country  India State Odisha District Boudh Elevation 129 m (423 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Coastline 0 kilometres (0 mi) Website odisha.gov.in"
"Purunakatak is a town in Boudh district, Odisha, India."
It is located at 20°38′0″N 84°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿20.63333°N 84.43333°E﻿ / 20.63333; 84.43333 at an elevation of 129 m above MSL.[1]
"Barkote Town Barkote Show map of Odisha Barkote Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°33′N 85°01′E﻿ / ﻿21.55°N 85.01°E﻿ / 21.55; 85.01Coordinates: 21°33′N 85°01′E﻿ / ﻿21.55°N 85.01°E﻿ / 21.55; 85.01 Country  India State Odisha District Debagarh Elevation 126 m (413 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD-28 (RTO Deogarh) Website odisha.gov.in"
Barkote is a town and in Debagarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
Barkote is located at 21°33′N 85°01′E﻿ / ﻿21.55°N 85.01°E﻿ / 21.55; 85.01.[1] It has an average elevation of 126 metres (255 feet).
"Jhumpura city Jhumpura Show map of Odisha Jhumpura Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 21°51′58″N 85°33′25″E﻿ / ﻿21.866°N 85.557°E﻿ / 21.866; 85.557Coordinates: 21°51′58″N 85°33′25″E﻿ / ﻿21.866°N 85.557°E﻿ / 21.866; 85.557 Country  India State Odisha District Kendujhar Population (2001)  • Total 5,265 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Jhumpura is a census town in Kendujhar district in the Indian state of Odisha. Jhumpura is a busiest market in Kendujhar.
Demographics
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Jhumpura had a population of 5265. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Jhumpura has an average literacy rate of 68%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 75%, and female literacy is 61%. In Jhumpura, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age.Hindu and Muslim populated small business town jhumpura stands by its own address"
"Lattikata city Lattikata Show map of Odisha Lattikata Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 22°12′39″N 84°35′24″E﻿ / ﻿22.2107°N 84.5901°E﻿ / 22.2107; 84.5901Coordinates: 22°12′39″N 84°35′24″E﻿ / ﻿22.2107°N 84.5901°E﻿ / 22.2107; 84.5901 Country  India State Odisha District Sundargarh Population (2001)  • Total 6,896 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Lattikata is a census town in Sundargarh district in the Indian state of Odisha.
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Lattikata had a population of 6896. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Lattikata has an average literacy rate of 72%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 79%, and female literacy is 65%. In Lattikata, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Raikia Town Raikia Show map of Odisha Raikia Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°28′N 84°14′E﻿ / ﻿20.47°N 84.23°E﻿ / 20.47; 84.23Coordinates: 20°28′N 84°14′E﻿ / ﻿20.47°N 84.23°E﻿ / 20.47; 84.23 Country  India State Odisha District Kandhamal Elevation 485 m (1,591 ft) Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD-12 Website odisha.gov.in"
"Raikia is a small town in Kandhamal district in the Indian state of Odisha. The town is a planned and well-organized place in the district. There are Hindu, Christian(Catholic and Baptist), and a good population of the tribe(Kandha).It is known as the business capital of Kandhamal district. The town has many good and old educational institutions like Jivan Jyoti Mahavidyalaya (where BA, BSc are the courses you can opt for), girls high school St. Catherine's Girls High School (co-education till std 5 and unisex education after words), Bijay High School (boys high school), Kanyashram (Govt. Residential Girls High School), Saraswati sishu bidya mandir and meny more . There are few very good hospitals like Govt. Hospital and Mission Hospital."
Location
"It is located 227 km from Bhubaneshwar, the capital of Odisha and 147 km from Berhampur, the major city of South Odisha. The nearest railway station is Rairakhol around 100 km from it. The region around Phulbani has a variety of flora and fauna. It is a place surrounded by hills and has a lot of small and big waterfalls around it. The most spectacular of the lot is situated at a distance of about 20 km Mondasur kuti among the local people is situated at a distance of about 18 km from Raikia."
"Hum (Italian: Colmo; German: Cholm) is a town in the central part of Istria, northwest Croatia, 7 km from Roč. The elevation is 349 m. It has a population of 21 as per the 2011 census,[1] but is officially a town.[2]"
"Hum is officially listed as the smallest town in the world. On its western side, the town is enclosed by walls and on the remaining sides houses are built into the defensive walls. It was first mentioned in documents dating from 1102, at which time it was called Cholm which is derived from the Italian name Colmo. A bell and watch tower was built in 1552 as part of the town's defenses beside the town loggia.[3]"
The town's parish church of St. Jerome (Sveti Jeronim) with its classical facade was built in 1802 on the side of an earlier church which was built by the local master Juraj Gržinič.
"Hum is also known as town of Biska. Biska is traditional Istrian grappa ( brandy), which was used as medicine and it is made by more than 2.000 years old recipe. http://www.istriago.com/the-smallest-city-in-the-world"
"Hum, Croatia"
"This is a list of national capitals, ordered according to population. Capitals of a dependent territories and disputed territories are marked in italics. The population statistics given refer only to the official capital area, and do not include the wider metropolitan/urban district."
List
Notes and references
List of national capitals by population
"Rank Country/Territory Capital Population Year Percent of Population 1  China Beijing 7007206930000000000♠20,693,000[1] 2012 1.52% 2  India New Delhi 7007167879490000000♠16,787,949[2] 2014 0.90% 3  Japan Tokyo 7007131890000000000♠13,189,000[3] 2011 10.32% 4  Philippines Manila 7007128772530000000♠12,877,253[4] 2015 12.44% 5  Russia Moscow 7007115410000000000♠11,541,000[5] 2011 8.07% 6  Egypt Cairo 7007102303500000000♠10,230,350 2012 11.10% 7  Indonesia Jakarta 7007101875950000000♠10,187,595[6] 2011 4.18% 8  Democratic Republic of the Congo Kinshasa 7007101250000000000♠10,125,000[7] 2012 12.30% 9  South Korea Seoul 7006998979500000000♠9,989,795[8] 2015 20.47% 10  Bangladesh Dhaka 7006890600000000000♠8,906,000 [9] 2011 5.56% 11  Mexico Mexico City 7006885108000000000♠8,851,080[10] 2010 7.51% 12  Iran Tehran 7006884678200000000♠8,846,782 2014 9.91% 13  United Kingdom London 7006863010000000000♠8,630,100[11] 2015 7.32% 14  Peru Lima 7006848141500000000♠8,481,415[12] 2012 28.29% 15  Thailand Bangkok 7006824911700000000♠8,249,117[13] 2010 12.42% 16  Colombia Bogotá 7006761330300000000♠7,613,303[14] 2011 16.17% 17  Vietnam Hanoi 7006758780000000000♠7,587,800[15] 2014 8.22% 18  Hong Kong (China) Hong Kong 7006729860000000000♠7,298,600[16] 2015 --- 19  Iraq Baghdad 7006721604000000000♠7,216,040[17] 21.59% 20  Singapore Singapore 7006553500000000000♠5,535,000[18] 2015 --- 21  Turkey Ankara 7006515007200000000♠5,150,072 2014 6.72% 22  Chile Santiago 7006508403800000000♠5,084,038[19] 2012 29.12% 23  Saudi Arabia Riyadh 7006487872300000000♠4,878,723[20] 2009 18.20% 24  Germany Berlin 7006352000000000000♠3,520,000[21] 2012 4.38% 25  Syria Damascus 7006350000000000000♠3,500,000 15.32% 26  Spain Madrid 7006323352700000000♠3,233,527[22] 2012 6.84% 27  North Korea Pyongyang 7006314400500000000♠3,144,005 12.63% 28  Afghanistan Kabul 7006314085300000000♠3,140,853 10.28% 29  Kenya Nairobi 7006313836900000000♠3,138,369 2010 7.67% 30  Greece Athens 7006309050800000000♠3,090,508 28.02% 31  Ethiopia Addis Ababa 7006304074000000000♠3,040,740[23] 2012 3.31% 32  Argentina Buenos Aires 7006289108200000000♠2,891,082[24] 2010 7.16% 33  Italy Rome 7006286810400000000♠2,868,104[25] 2014 4.72% 34  Ukraine Kyiv 7006284720000000000♠2,847,200[26] 2013 6.26% 35  Cameroon Yaoundé 7006276556800000000♠2,765,568 [27] 2015 11.65% 36  Taiwan Taipei 7006268651600000000♠2,686,516[28] 2013 11.53% 37  Brazil Brasília 7006264853200000000♠2,648,532[29] 2012 1.33% 38  Jordan Amman 7006260060300000000♠2,600,603 40.26% 39  Angola Luanda 7006245377900000000♠2,453,779 11.43% 40  South Africa Pretoria 7006234590800000000♠2,345,908 4.43% 41  France Paris 7006224134600000000♠2,241,346[30] 2014 3.38% 42  Uzbekistan Tashkent 7006220785000000000♠2,207,850 7.30% 43  Azerbaijan Baku 7006220420000000000♠2,204,200[31] 2015 22.96% 44  Sweden Stockholm 7005925934000000000♠925,934[32] 2014 22.33% 45  Cuba Havana 7006213549800000000♠2,135,498[33] 2010 18.93% 46  Cambodia Phnom Penh 7006201172500000000♠2,011,725 13.29% 47  Romania Bucharest 7006194225400000000♠1,942,254[34] 9.73% 48  Venezuela Caracas 7006183893900000000♠1,838,939 6.05% 49  Morocco Rabat 7006178963500000000♠1,789,635 5.42% 50  Austria Vienna 7006174967300000000♠1,749,673[35] 2013 20.65% 51  Sudan Khartoum 7006174066100000000♠1,740,661 4.59% 52  Hungary Budapest 7006172904000000000♠1,729,040[36] 2011 17.34% 53  Poland Warsaw 7006171132400000000♠1,711,324[37] 2012 4.42% 54  Belarus Minsk 7006170206100000000♠1,702,061 17.98% 55  Uganda Kampala 7006165960000000000♠1,659,600 4.42% 56  Ghana Accra 7006164050700000000♠1,640,507 6.33% 57  Madagascar Antananarivo 7006161337500000000♠1,613,375[38] 7.04% 58  Lebanon Beirut 7006157438700000000♠1,574,387 35.25% 59  Algeria Algiers 7006151808300000000♠1,518,083 3.87% 60  Ecuador Quito 7006150499100000000♠1,504,991 9.65% 61  Zimbabwe Harare 7006148702800000000♠1,487,028 10.51% 62  Qatar Doha 7006145000000000000♠1,450,000 66.85% 63  Yemen Sana'a 7006143164900000000♠1,431,649 5.87% 64  Guinea Conakry 7006139998100000000♠1,399,981 11.91% 65  Malaysia Kuala Lumpur 7006138183000000000♠1,381,830 4.65% 66  Uruguay Montevideo 7006136979700000000♠1,369,797 40.21% 67  Zambia Lusaka 7006133125400000000♠1,331,254 9.16% 68  Mali Bamako 7006128962600000000♠1,289,626 8.43% 69  Czech Republic Prague 7006124166400000000♠1,241,664[39] 2011 11.83% 70  Haiti Port-au-Prince 7006123522700000000♠1,235,227 11.97% 71  Libya Tripoli 7006118404500000000♠1,184,045 19.09% 72  Kuwait Kuwait City 7006117188000000000♠1,171,880 34.78% 73  Serbia Belgrade 7006115458900000000♠1,154,589 16.12% 74  Dominican Republic Santo Domingo 7006111183800000000♠1,111,838[40] 2010 11.10% 75  Somalia Mogadishu 7006109713300000000♠1,097,133 10.45% 76  Bulgaria Sofia 7006109029500000000♠1,090,295 15.02% 77  Congo Brazzaville 7006108804400000000♠1,088,044 1.61% 78  Belgium Brussels 7006108079000000000♠1,080,790[41] 9.65% 79  Armenia Yerevan 7006108048700000000♠1,080,487[38] 36.29% 80  Mozambique Maputo 7006107668900000000♠1,076,689 4.17% 81  Sierra Leone Freetown 7006107020000000000♠1,070,200 17.57% 82  Ireland Dublin 7006104576900000000♠1,045,769 22.76% 83  Georgia Tbilisi 7006104499300000000♠1,044,993 23.34% 84  Senegal Dakar 7006103059400000000♠1,030,594 7.29% 85  Guatemala Guatemala City 7006102200000000000♠1,022,000 2001 8.90% 86  Liberia Monrovia 7006101097000000000♠1,010,970 23.54% 87  Burkina Faso Ouagadougou 7006100523100000000♠1,005,231 5.94% 88    Nepal Kathmandu 7006100328500000000♠1,003,285 2011[42] 3.69% 89  Pakistan Islamabad 7005955629000000000♠955,629 0.48% 90  Nicaragua Managua 7005926883000000000♠926,883 15.24% 91  Myanmar Naypyidaw[43] 7005925000000000000♠925,000[44] 1.74% 92  Mongolia Ulan Bator 7005907802000000000♠907,802 31.98% 93  Malawi Lilongwe 7005902388000000000♠902,388 5.52% 94  Canada Ottawa 7005898150000000000♠898,150[45] 2.55% 95  Bolivia La Paz 7005877363000000000♠877,363 8.22% 96  Kyrgyzstan Bishkek 7005843240000000000♠843,240 14.74% 97  Kazakhstan Astana 7005835153000000000♠835,153 2014 4.79% 98  Togo Lomé 7005824738000000000♠824,738 12.10% 99  Panama Panama City 7005813097000000000♠813,097 21.04% 100  Netherlands Amsterdam 7005810909000000000♠810,909[46] 4.83% 101  Croatia Zagreb 7005804200000000000♠804,200[47] 18.91% 102  Oman Muscat 7005797000000000000♠797,000[48] 21.94% 103  Niger Niamey 7005794814000000000♠794,814[46] 4.46% 104  Moldova Chişinău 7005794800000000000♠794,800 [49] 22.33% 105  Israel Jerusalem[50] 7005780200000000000♠780,200[51] 9.68% 106  Nigeria Abuja 7005778567000000000♠778,567 [52] 0.45% 107  Albania Tirana 7005763634000000000♠763,634 27.53% 108  Tunisia Tunis 7005767629000000000♠767,629 7.05% 109  Turkmenistan Ashgabat 7005763537000000000♠763,537 14.57% 110  Chad N'Djamena 7005751288000000000♠751,288 5.86% 111  Honduras Tegucigalpa 7005735982000000000♠735,982 9.09% 112  Central African Republic Bangui 7005731548000000000♠731,548 14.79% 113  Mauritania Nouakchott 7005719167000000000♠719,167 18.49% 114  Rwanda Kigali 7005718414000000000♠718,414 6.10% 115  Latvia Riga 7005713016000000000♠713,016 35.42% 116  Jamaica Kingston 7005701063000000000♠701,063 25.82% 117  Macedonia Skopje 7005668518000000000♠668,518[53] 24.70% 118  United States Washington 7005658893000000000♠658,893 2014 0.21% 119  Norway Oslo 7005645701000000000♠645,701[54] 2013 12.70% 120  Finland Helsinki 7005596661000000000♠596,661[55] 10.97% 121  United Arab Emirates Abu Dhabi 7005585097000000000♠585,097[56] 6.27% 122  Tajikistan Dushanbe 7005582496000000000♠582,496 7.10% 123  Portugal Lisbon 7005564657000000000♠564,657 5.40% 124  Denmark Copenhagen 7005562253000000000♠562,253 10.02% 125  Lithuania Vilnius 7005556723000000000♠556,723 18.83% 126  Gabon Libreville 7005556425000000000♠556,425 33.28% 127  Eritrea Asmara 7006125800100000000♠1,258,001 5.20% 128  El Salvador San Salvador 7005521366000000000♠521,366 8.22% 129  Paraguay Asunción 7005520722000000000♠520,722 7.66% 130  Macau (China) Macau 7005520400000000000♠520,400[57] 131  Scotland Edinburgh 7005492680000000000♠492,680 132  Djibouti Djibouti (city) 7005475332000000000♠475,332 54.45% 133  Côte d'Ivoire Yamoussoukro 7005454929000000000♠454,929 2.24% 134  Guinea-Bissau Bissau 7005452640000000000♠452,640 26.56% 135  Estonia Tallinn 7005440206000000000♠440,206[58] 33.22% 136  Slovakia Bratislava 7005424207000000000♠424,207 7.84% 137  Puerto Rico (US) San Juan 7005421356000000000♠421,356 138  New Zealand Wellington 7005398300000000000♠398,300 2015[59] 8.66% 139  Burundi Bujumbura 7005384461000000000♠384,461[60] 3.78% 140  Bosnia and Herzegovina Sarajevo 7005383604000000000♠383,604 10.02% 141  South Sudan Juba 7005372410000000000♠372,410 3.30% 141  Australia Canberra 7005354644000000000♠354,644[61] 1.53% 143  Costa Rica San José 7005328195000000000♠328,195 6.74% 144  Papua New Guinea Port Moresby 7005299396000000000♠299,396[62] 4.09% 145  Laos Vientiane 7005287579000000000♠287,579 4.25% 146  Tanzania Dodoma 7005287200000000000♠287,200 2002 est.[63] 0.80% 147  Lesotho Maseru 7005267652000000000♠267,652[62] 12.91% 148  Cyprus Nicosia (south) 7005270000000000000♠270,000 late 2004[64] 26.57% 149  Slovenia Ljubljana 7005280140000000000♠280,140 13.60% 150  Suriname Paramaribo 7005254147000000000♠254,147 47.13% 151  Namibia Windhoek 7005252721000000000♠252,721 10.97% 152  Bahamas Nassau 7005248948000000000♠248,948 65.97% 153  Botswana Gaborone 7005225656000000000♠225,656[65] 11.17% 154  Benin Porto-Novo 7005223552000000000♠223,552 [66] 2.17% 155  Kosovo Prishtina 7005198214000000000♠198,214 --- 156  Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic El Aaiún(claimed) Tifariti(factual) 7005194668000000000♠194,668 7003300000000000000♠3,000 [67] 2009 --- 157  Transnistria Tiraspol 7005159163000000000♠159,163 --- 158  Mauritius Port Louis 7005147251000000000♠147,251[68] 12.28% 159  Montenegro Podgorica 7005141854000000000♠141,854 22.83% 160  Bahrain Manama 7005140616000000000♠140,616 10.56% 161  Guyana Georgetown 7005134599000000000♠134,599 16.83% 162  Cape Verde Praia 7005125464000000000♠125,464 25.15% 163   Switzerland Berne (de facto) 7005121631000000000♠121,631 [69] 1.51% 164  Sri Lanka Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte 7005118556000000000♠118,556[70] 0.58% 165  Iceland Reykjavík 7005115000000000000♠115,000[71] 35.60% 166  Barbados Bridgetown 7005110000000000000♠110,000 39.06% 167  Maldives Malé 7005103693000000000♠103,693 30.05% 168  Bhutan Thimphu 7005101259000000000♠101,259 [70] 13.43% 169  Equatorial Guinea Malabo 7005100677000000000♠100,677 [72] 13.30% 170  New Caledonia (France) Nouméa 7004892070000000000♠89,207[73] --- 171  Northern Cyprus Nicosia (north) 7004848930000000000♠84,893 --- 172  Fiji Suva 7004844100000000000♠84,410[73] 9.58% 173  Swaziland Mbabane 7004815940000000000♠81,594 6.53% 174  Luxembourg Luxembourg 7004764200000000000♠76,420[74] 14.07% 175  Saint Lucia Castries 7004700000000000000♠70,000[75] 38.40% 176  Northern Mariana Islands (USA) Saipan 7004623920000000000♠62,392 (2000)[76] --- 177  Comoros Moroni 7004602000000000000♠60,200 8.19% 178  Solomon Islands Honiara 7004592880000000000♠59,288[73] 10.56% 179  East Timor Dili 7004590690000000000♠59,069 5.01% 180  São Tomé and Príncipe Sao Tome 7004561660000000000♠56,166 29.10% 181  American Samoa (USA) Pago Pago 7004520000000000000♠52,000 (2003)[77] --- 182  Trinidad and Tobago Port of Spain 7004504790000000000♠50,479 3.76% 183  Nagorno-Karabakh Republic Stepanakert 7004499860000000000♠49,986 --- 184  Curaçao (Netherlands) Willemstad 7004498850000000000♠49,885 [78] --- 185  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Kingstown 7004400200000000000♠40,020 36.59% 186  Samoa Apia 7004398130000000000♠39,813[79] 20.91% 187  Vanuatu Port Vila 7004380000000000000♠38,000 [80] 15.03% 188  Monaco Monaco 7004359860000000000♠35,986 (2011 est.)[81] --- 189  Gambia Banjul 7004348280000000000♠34,828 1.88% 190  Kiribati Tarawa 7004300000000000000♠30,000[82] 29.31% 191  Aruba (Netherlands) Oranjestad 7004299980000000000♠29,998[83] --- 192  Seychelles Victoria 7004292980000000000♠29,298 32.86% 193  Gibraltar (UK) Gibraltar 7004292860000000000♠29,286 --- 194  Jersey (UK) Saint Helier 7004283800000000000♠28,380 --- 195  Brunei Bandar Seri Begawan 7004281350000000000♠28,135 6.73% 196  Cayman Islands (UK) George Town 7004267980000000000♠26,798 --- 197  Isle of Man (UK) Douglas 7004266000000000000♠26,600 --- 198  French Polynesia (France) Papeete 7004262000000000000♠26,200 [84] --- 199  West Bank (Israel/PNA) Ramallah (de facto) 7004255000000000000♠25,500[85] --- 200  Marshall Islands Majuro 7004254000000000000♠25,400 48.26% 201  Andorra Andorra la Vella 7004228840000000000♠22,884 28.89% 202  Antigua and Barbuda St. John's 7004226790000000000♠22,679[86] 25.20 203  Tonga Nukuʻalofa 7004224000000000000♠22,400 21.27% 204  Faroe Islands (Denmark) Tórshavn 7004185730000000000♠18,573 [87] --- 205  Guernsey (UK) St. Peter Port 7004167010000000000♠16,701 --- 206  Belize Belmopan 7004164510000000000♠16,451[88] 4.96% 207  Greenland (Denmark) Nuuk (Godthåb) 7004154690000000000♠15,469 --- 208  Dominica Roseau 7004148470000000000♠14,847 [89] 20.62% 209  Saint Kitts and Nevis Basseterre 7004130430000000000♠13,043 24.07% 210  Åland (Finland) Mariehamn 7004112960000000000♠11,296 [55] --- 211  United States Virgin Islands (US) Charlotte Amalie 7004108170000000000♠10,817 --- 212  Federated States of Micronesia Palikir 7003990000000000000♠9,900 9.56% 213  British Virgin Islands (UK) Road Town 7003940000000000000♠9,400 --- 214  Grenada St. George's 7003750000000000000♠7,500 7.08% 215  Malta Valletta 7003644400000000000♠6,444[90] 2014 1.45% 216  Saint Barthélemy (France) Gustavia 7003600000000000000♠6,000 --- 217  Collectivity of Saint Martin (France) Marigot 7003570000000000000♠5,700 --- 218  Saint Pierre and Miquelon (France) Saint-Pierre 7003550900000000000♠5,509 --- 219  Cook Islands (NZ) Avarua 7003544500000000000♠5,445 --- 220  Liechtenstein Vaduz 7003524800000000000♠5,248 14.21% 221  San Marino City of San Marino 7003449300000000000♠4,493 --- 222  Tuvalu Funafuti 7003449200000000000♠4,492 45.48% 223  Turks and Caicos Islands (UK) Cockburn Town 7003370000000000000♠3,700 --- 224  Falkland Islands (UK) Stanley 7003211500000000000♠2,115 [91] --- 225  Svalbard (Norway) Longyearbyen 7003207500000000000♠2,075 --- 226  Christmas Island (Australia) Flying Fish Cove 7003149300000000000♠1,493 [92] --- 227  Sint Maarten (Netherlands) Philipsburg 7003133800000000000♠1,338 --- 228  Wallis and Futuna (France) Mata-Utu 7003119100000000000♠1,191 --- 229  Anguilla (UK) The Valley 7003116900000000000♠1,169 --- 230  Nauru Yaren (de facto) 7003110000000000000♠1,100[93] 10.91% 231  Guam (US) Hagåtña 7003110000000000000♠1,100 --- 232  Montserrat (UK) Brades (de facto) 7002391000000000000♠391 --- 233  Bermuda (UK) Hamilton 7003101000000000000♠1,010 --- 234  Norfolk Island (Australia) Kingston 7002880000000000000♠880 [94] --- 235   Vatican City Vatican City (City-state) 7002826000000000000♠826 (2009 est.)[95] --- 236  Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha (UK) Jamestown 7002714000000000000♠714 --- 237  Niue (NZ) Alofi 7002616000000000000♠616 --- 238  Tokelau (NZ) Atafu 7002524000000000000♠524 --- 239  Palau Ngerulmud 7002391000000000000♠391 1.87% 240  Cocos (Keeling) Islands (Australia) West Island 7002120000000000000♠120 --- 241  Pitcairn Islands (UK) Adamstown 7001560000000000000♠56 --- 242  South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands (UK) King Edward Point 7001180000000000000♠18 ---"
"Theog ठियोग Town Theog Show map of Himachal Pradesh Theog Show map of India Location in Himachal Pradesh, India Coordinates: 31°07′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.12°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.12; 77.35Coordinates: 31°07′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.12°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.12; 77.35 Country  India State Himachal Pradesh District Shimla Government  • SDM Manoj Chauhan (HAS) Elevation 1,965 m (6,447 ft) Population (2010)  • Total 7,714 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 171201 Telephone code 91 1783 xxxxxx Vehicle registration HP-09"
People
"Pahari and Hindi are the main languages spoken among people in Theog. Their main occupation is growing vegetables including cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, potatoes and capsicum; and fruits including apples, peaches, cherries and apricots. Women folk are educated and equally participate with their male counterparts in day-to-day activities. This town has always remained the center of state politics with famous political leaders like Mrs. Vidya Stokes and Mr. Rakesh Verma . Many people are serving the public by joining sectors such as army, transport, police and education. Theog is also the top producer of vegetables in Asia. Theog has major contribution in pahari folk music, Laiq Ram Rafiq is famous song writer. Notable pahari folk (mahaswi nati) singers are Dr Mohan Rathore, Dr Mahinder Rathore, Kishan Verma, Kuldeep Sharma and Shyam Singta. 'Royal Apple Picture' is the major production house based in Theog, 'Theogo Ra Gappu' was the first local pahari (mahaswi) film made in 2010. Before 15 August 1947, majority of demographic and geographic area of Theog was ruled by Thakur of Sainj Riyasat(small kingdom). The revolutionaries and local people of Theog revolted openly against Sainj riyasat and they unanimously passed resolution and decided to become part of Republic of India on 15 August 1947. From that day onwards, 15 August is celebrated whole heartedly as Independence day at the local Potato ground.People from distant and nearby villages come to participate in that historic day. In year 2007, first Summer festival was organized at historic Potato ground. Summer festival is now celebrated every year, local and national level artist perform there to entertain masses."
Theog is a town and a municipal committee in Shimla district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh.
Demographics
"As of 2010 India census,[1] Theog had a population of 7714. Males constitute 57% of the population and females 43%. Theog has an average literacy rate of 80%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 83%, and female literacy is 77%. In Theog, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Theog is located at 31°07′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.12°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.12; 77.35.[2] It has an average elevation of 1965 metres (6446 feet). It is situated on National Highway NH22 (on the Hindustan-Tibet Road), is 32 km away from Shimla, and is a town of five 'Ghats' (or ridges): Rahi Ghat, Deori Ghat, Prem Ghat, Janoghat,and Bagaghat."
Theog
"Ranipool रानीपुल Town Nickname(s): QueenBridge Ranipool Show map of Sikkim Ranipool Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°17′32″N 88°35′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.2922°N 88.5922°E﻿ / 27.2922; 88.5922Coordinates: 27°17′32″N 88°35′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.2922°N 88.5922°E﻿ / 27.2922; 88.5922 Country  India State Sikkim District East Sikkim Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 737135[1] Vehicle registration SK"
"Ranipool is a small suburban town located near Gangtok in East Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim. It is 12 km from Gangtok main town. It has three roads which lead to Singtam, Pakyong and Gangtok. It falls under the Gangtok Municipal Corporation."
"It has five schools, two government and three private. There is a pharmaceutical factory of Sun Pharma for producing medicines 1.5 km away. The pharmaceutical factory of Glenmark is within 3.5 km. An agriculture college within 1 km of Ranipool."
Ranipool is dominated by Bihari people and Marwaries on the economic front and its population is a mixture of all communities.
"Pakyong Pakim पाक्किम city Pakyong Show map of Sikkim Pakyong Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°14′22″N 88°35′46″E﻿ / ﻿27.2394°N 88.5961°E﻿ / 27.2394; 88.5961Coordinates: 27°14′22″N 88°35′46″E﻿ / ﻿27.2394°N 88.5961°E﻿ / 27.2394; 88.5961 Country  India State Sikkim District East Sikkim Elevation 1,120 m (3,670 ft) Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 737 106 Telephone code 03592 Vehicle registration SK Climate Cwb"
Pakyong (Nepali: पाक्किम) is a town in the East Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim located in the foothills of the Himalayas. The small town is also Sub Division of East District and holds many government offices. Pakyong used to be a small settlement until the central government approved a new greenfield airport to be constructed by Punj Lloyd.[1]
"The town has a missionary run school called St. Xavier's,[2] which ranked as one of the top two schools in Sikkim during the 1990s. Notable among its alumni are the Padmashri awardee footballer Baichung Bhutia. The ""National Research Centre for Orchids"", (ICAR Institute) is also located in the town.[3]"
Not much is known about the historical past of this little town. But the existence of old British bunkers at British Killa suggest the presence of armed bunkers sometime in the past.
Geography
"Located in East Sikkim at an altitude of 1700m(5577 ft), it shares its borders with Bhutan and Tibet.Topography is hilly and a good agricultural area."
Economy
People and Culture
Local Attractions
Pakyong
"Banjar valley of god tirthan valley Banjar Show map of Himachal Pradesh Banjar Show map of India Location in Himachal Pradesh, India Coordinates: 31°38′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.63°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.63; 77.35Coordinates: 31°38′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.63°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.63; 77.35 Country  India State Himachal Pradesh District Kullu Government  • Type congress Elevation 1,356 m (4,449 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 1,262 Official  • Official Hindi(English) Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 175123 Telephone code 01903 Vehicle registration HP-49"
"Banjar is a town in Kullu district in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India. Banjar is also known as the 'Valley of God'. The Tirthan valley is also located in Banjar."
"Banjar is located at 31°38′N 77°21′E﻿ / ﻿31.63°N 77.35°E﻿ / 31.63; 77.35.[1] It is situated at the height of 1356 metres (4515.48 feet) from sea level. The place lies on the alternate route to Kullu from Shimla. The main route is via Bilaspur and Mandi. The alternate route goes from Theog, Aani, Jalori Pass, Banjar and joins the main route at Aut. The Banjar Valley is in the middle Himalayan range and going towards east, the peaks progressively get taller, finally giving way to the great Himalayan range, where peaks have heights of 4500 meters and above. The valley is also a gateway to The Great Himalayan National Park from its north-eastern side. The town consists of a lot of low cost tourism places and serves as a summer destination."
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Banjar had a population of 1262. Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%. Banjar has an average literacy rate of 84%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 89% of the males and 78% of females literate. 8% of the population is under 6 years of age, of which 52% are male and 48% are female."
Zafar Iqbal Personal information Born (1956-06-20) 20 June 1956 Playing position Left wing National team 1978- India Medal record Men's field hockey Representing  India Olympic Games 1980 Moscow Team
Zafar Iqbal (born 20 June 1956) is a former Indian field hockey player and captained the national team.[1]
Professional career
"Iqbal was a member of the 1980 Summer Olympics field hockey team that won the last Olympic Gold Medal for India. He has captained Indian squad in various international events, among them being Asian Games, in 1982 and 1983 Champions Trophy, and the 1984 Summer Olympics. Iqbal is remembered for a strong attack as well as for missing a goal, in front of an open goal against West Germany, that would have placed India a semifinal spot in the 1984 Olympics."
"Iqbal was awarded the Arjuna Award, the highest award given in sports by India.[2] He has served as Chief National Coach for Indian hockey from early 1993 to October 1994. Iqbal currently works as manager for Indian Airlines and is a National selector for Indian hockey team.[3] He was awarded Padma Shri in 2012.[4]"
Zafar Iqbal (field hockey)
"Leslie Walter Claudius Personal information Born (1927-03-25)25 March 1927 Bilaspur, British India Died 20 December 2012(2012-12-20) (aged 85) Kolkata, West Bengal, India Height 5'4"" (162 cm) Playing position Halfback Senior career Years Team Apps (Gls) Bengal Nagpur Railway National team 1948–1960 India 100+ Medal record Men's Field Hockey Representing  India Olympic Games 1948 London Team 1952 Helsinki Team 1956 Melbourne Team 1960 Rome Team Asian Games 1958 Tokyo Team competition"
Leslie Walter Claudius (25 March 1927[1] – 20 December 2012[2]) was an Indian field hockey player from Bilaspur. He studied in South Eastern Railway(Now SECR) English Medium School Bilaspur which has produced many national sportsmen.
"Leslie Claudius shares with Udham Singh the distinction of being one of only two Indian players to win four Olympic medals in field hockey. To his gold medals in 1948, 1952 and 1956, he added silver in 1960 when he captained the team. He was the first player ever to earn 100 caps, and competed for India, in addition to the Olympics, on their European tour of 1949, Malaysian tour of 1952, Australian and New Zealand tours of 1955, and at the 3rd Asian Games in 1958. After the 1960 Olympics, he continued to compete domestically, retiring after the 1965 season. In 1971, he became the sixth Indian hockey player to be given the prestigious Padamshree civil award by the Indian government.[3]"
Career
Early career
"Claudius was initially interested in Football and as an accomplished player, he got a chance to play for the Bengal and Nagpur Railway. But, his talent in field hockey was spotted by Dickie Carr, who was a part of the Indian team that won the gold medal at the 1936 Olympics. Claudius was then inducted into the Bengal and Nagpur Railway hockey team that Carr was a part of. The team finished second in the Beighton Cup and Claudius quit football for hockey.[4]"
International career
"Claudius was a member of India's generation of hockey that won the Olympic gold in 1948, 1952 and 1956 and silver in 1960.[1] He was the first hockey player to have competed in four Olympics and also the first to earn a hundred international caps.[5] He captained the Indian team for the first team in 1959, with Dhyan Chand, often considered India's greatest hockey player ever as the coach, and led them to the second-place finish at the 1960 Olympics in Rome.[4]"
Team Manager
Claudius was appointed as the manager of the Indian team in 1978 for the Bangkok Asian Games.
"Claudius was of Anglo-Indian descent. His son, Robert, was also an Indian international who represented his country at the World Cup in Mexico in 1978. Robert died in a road accident. Leslie had three more sons, one who stayed with him in Kolkata and two who live in Melbourne."
Awards and recognition
Death
"Claudius died in Kolkata on 20 December 2012, after a prolonged battle with cirrhosis of liver. He was survived by his wife and three sons. He is buried in Lower Circular Road cemetery, Kolkata."
Leslie Claudius
Medal record Men's field hockey Representing  India Olympic Games 1968 Mexico Team competition 1972 Munich Team competition Asian Games 1966 Bangkok Team competition 1970 Bangkok Team competition 1974 Tehran Team competition
"Harmik Singh (born June 10, 1947 in Gujranwala, Punjab) is a former captain of the Indian field hockey team. He played for India in many tournaments including the 1968 and 1972 Summer Olympics. He was awarded the Arjuna Award for his achievements."
"Harmik Singh is the brother of Ajit Singh, and the uncle of later Indian international Gagan Ajit Singh."
Pargat Singh (born 5 March 1965) is a hockey player turned politician in India and belongs to the Indian National Congress in Punjab. He is a former Indian hockey player and his playing position was of full back. He was considered as one of the world's best defenders erstwhile. He captained Indian men's hockey team at 1992 Barcelona Olympics and 1996 Atlanta Olympics. He was working as an SP with Punjab police before taking a plunge into politics.
Champions Trophy
1985 (Perth)
"India vs Germany: At one point of time score board was ticking 1-5. Then this young guy, Pargat Singh came forward and performed against everyone's hope and scored 4 goals in the last 6 minutes. The result was a draw but it made Pargat Singh a real hero in the hearts of every Indian.[1]"
1986 (Karachi)
He didn't stop there with his previous year's spectacular performance against Germany and repeated the same action against Holland to give India a 3-2 victory.
Singh was nominated for Jalandhar Cantt legislative seat as SAD nominee which he subsequently won defeating Jagbir Singh Brar of Congress.[2]
He was suspended by SAD in July 2016.[3]
He along with Navjot Singh Sidhu and Bains brothers formed a new political front - Aawaaz-e-Punjab claiming to fight against those working against Punjab.[4]
Singh was one of the 42 INC MLAs who submitted their resignation in protest of a decision of the Supreme Court of India ruling Punjab's termination of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water canal unconstitutional.[5]
Honours
He is Vice-President of the Surjit Singh Memorial Hockey Tournament Society of Jalandhar.[6]
"Vasudevan Baskaran (born 17 August 1950) is a former field hockey player from India. He captained the Indian team, which won the gold medal at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, Soviet Union. Thereafter he coached and mentored several players for the Indian team. Now he lives with his family in Besant Nagar in Chennai, India."
"After the Olympic gold victory, Baskaran had coached the Indian National Team several times, the last time at the 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup in Mönchengladbach. Currently he is the Chief Coach of Bhopal Badshahs in World Series Hockey league. He was also accused in the southern railway employees cooperative society election Chennai. Mainly no elections held in that railway society lost twety years. He was the electroller officer for the last fake election held in febraury2013. And a case filed against him. Mr.N.kanniah GS SRMU chairman for the railway society, Chennai. Now arbitration case is also running for the same fake election.2013. And case was filed against him."
He was awarded the Arjuna Award in (1979–1980) for his brilliant performance as a player in Olympic Games.
Vasudevan Baskaran
This is a list of all field hockey players who have captained Indian national field hockey team at the international level in Olympics.The list includes all Indian captains of men's since the period of 1928 Olympic in Amsterdam.
Indian hockey team 1928 Olympics
Indian-Hockey-Team-Berlin-1936
List of Indian field hockey captains in Olympics
"Ramandeep Singh Grewal (born 8 August 1971 in Chandigarh) is a former field hockey midfielder from India, who made his international debut for the Men's National Team in 1995. Singh represented his native country at two consecutive Summer Olympics, starting in 1996 in Atlanta, Georgia, where India finished in eighth place. Four years later in Sydney, Australia, he captained the team, that ended up in seventh position."
"Ramandeep Singh (field hockey, born 1971)"
Ramandeep Singh (born 1 April 1993) is an Indian field hockey player who plays as a forward.[2][3] He was named in the Indian squad for the 2016 Summer Olympics.
Planned
Defunct airlines
"This is a List of airlines in India, both operational and defunct. •Kingfisher"
Operational
Airline ICAO IATA Call Sign Commenced Headquarters Type AirAsia india IAD I5 ARIYA 2014 Chennai Low Cost Air Carnival ACV 2S - 2016 Coimbatore Regional Air Costa LEP LB LECOSTA 2013 Vijayawada Regional Air Himalayas - - - 2009 Manali Regional Air India AIC AI AIRINDIA 1932 Delhi Flag Carrier Air India Express AXB IX EXPRESS INDIA 2005 Kochi Low Cost Air India Regional LLR CD ALLIED 1996 Delhi Regional Air Odisha AOA AO AIR ODISHA 2012 Bhubaneswar Charter Blue Dart Aviation BDA BZ BLUE DART 1995 Chennai Cargo Chhattisgarh Air Link CJS CG CHHATTISGARH AIR 2012 Raipur Charter Club One Air  —  —  — 2005 Delhi Charter Deccan Charters DKN DN DECCAN 1997 Bangalore Charter GoAir GOW G8 GO AIR 2005 Mumbai Low Cost IndiGo IGO 6E IFLY 2006 Gurgaon Low Cost Jet Airways JAI 9W JET AIRWAYS 1993 Mumbai Full service Pinnacle Air PNC PX PINNACLE 2013 Delhi Charter Quikjet Airlines FQA QO QUIK LIFT 2016 Bangalore Cargo SpiceJet SEJ SG SPICEJET 2005 Gurgaon Low Cost TajAir MGE TX  — 1993 Mumbai Charter TruJet TRJ 2T TRUJET 2015 Hyderabad Regional Vistara VTI UK VISTARA 2015 Delhi Full service
"Air Odisha Aviation Private Limited (AOAPL) is an Indian air charter company based in Bhubaneswar, India. The airline has its headquarters at Biju Patnaik International Airport, Bhubaneswar."
"Air Odisha Aviation Private Limited (AOAPL) is formed under Companies Act, Government of Odisha to provide air charter service.[1] Air Odisha is the sole chartered airline of Odisha and one of the non scheduled airlines of India."
Destinations
The company operates from Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar but has no scheduled destinations.
Fleet
VIP Charter Executive and Corporate Charter Air Ambulance Aerial Joyride Charter Film and Industrial Election Campaign Flower Dropping Aviation Consultancy
"Hirakud Airstrip हीराकुड हवाई पट्टी ହିରାକୁଦ୍ ଉଡାଣ ପଥ IATA: none – ICAO: VEHK Summary Airport type Public Owner Government of Odisha Serves Sambalpur Location Hirakud (India) Elevation AMSL 658 ft / 201 m Coordinates 21°34′49″N 84°00′20″E﻿ / ﻿21.58028°N 84.00556°E﻿ / 21.58028; 84.00556Coordinates: 21°34′49″N 84°00′20″E﻿ / ﻿21.58028°N 84.00556°E﻿ / 21.58028; 84.00556 Map VEHK Show map of Odisha VEHK Show map of India Location in Odisha Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 15/33 4,185 1,276"
"Hirakud Airstrip (IATA: VEHK) also known as Jamardarpali Airstrip, is located 12 kilometres north of Sambalpur in western Odisha, India.[1]"
Airlines Destinations Air Odisha Bhubaneswar
"Jodhpur Airport जोधपुर हवाई अड्डा Jodhpur Havāī Aḍḍā IATA: JDH – ICAO: VIJO Summary Airport type Military/Public Operator Airports Authority of India Location Jodhpur Elevation AMSL 717 ft / 219 m Coordinates 26°15′04″N 073°02′56″E﻿ / ﻿26.25111°N 73.04889°E﻿ / 26.25111; 73.04889 Website http://aai.aero Map JDH Show map of Rajasthan JDH Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 05/23 9,005 2,745 Concrete/Asphalt Statistics (2014) Passenger movements 308,982(1.74%) Aircraft movements 3,038 Cargo tonnage 13 Source: AAI,[1][2]"
"Jodhpur Airport (IATA: JDH, ICAO: VIJO) is a civil enclave airport in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. It shares its airside with the Jodhpur Air Base of the Indian Air Force."
"The Jodhpur Flying Club was set up by His Highness Maharaja Umaid Singh in the 1920s at a small airfield near his Chittar Palace in Jodhpur. Through the next 3 decades, the airfield grew in stature, being used as an airfield for the Royal Air Force (RAF) during World War II.[3] The airfield was later upgraded in 1950 after the formation of the Royal Indian Air Force (that later became the Indian Air Force).[4] Jodhpur was home to the IAF's Air Force Flying College until the 1965 war.[5]"
"Jodhpur airport's 12 acre civil enclave contains a terminal building measuring a built-up area of 5690 m2, that is capable of handling 430 passengers per hour. The terminal has 7 check-in counters and 3 boarding gates. The adjoining concrete apron measures 140 by 100 metres and has 3 parking bays that can cater to two A320 and an ATR aircraft simultaneously."
"Jodhpur's runway is oriented 05/23, is 2743 metres long and 45 metres wide. The airfield is equipped with night landing facilities and an Instrument Landing System (ILS) as well as navigational facilities like DVOR/DME and an NDB.[6]"
Jodhpur Air Base
"Squadrons of HAL Dhruv , MiG-27, MiG-21 , MI 17 and Su-30 MKI aircraft are operated by the IAF from this airfield. It was active during the Kargil War of 1999. French-made Rafale fighter aircraft are expected to operate from Jodhpur air base . Also have a battalion of Garud Commando Force"
"Airlines Destinations Air India Delhi, Mumbai Jet Airways Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore SpiceJet Delhi [7] IndiGo Hyderabad upcoming Supreme Airlines Jaipur"
"Tirupati Airport తిరుపతి విమానాశ్రయము Tirupati Vimānāśrayamu IATA: TIR – ICAO: VOTP Summary Airport type Public Owner/Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Tirupati Location Renigunta, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh Elevation AMSL 350 ft / 107 m Coordinates 13°38′16″N 079°32′50″E﻿ / ﻿13.63778°N 79.54722°E﻿ / 13.63778; 79.54722Coordinates: 13°38′16″N 079°32′50″E﻿ / ﻿13.63778°N 79.54722°E﻿ / 13.63778; 79.54722 Website aai.aero/allAirports/tirupati_generalinfo.jsp Map TIR Show map of Andhra Pradesh TIR Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 08/26 7,500 2,286 Asphalt Statistics (Apr 2015 - Mar 2016) Passenger Movements 3,71,060(51.4%) Aircraft Movements 5,264(76.3%) Source: AAI,[1][2][3]"
"Tirupati Airport, (IATA: TIR, ICAO: VOTP) is a public airport located at Renigunta, a suburb of Tirupati in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. The airport is located 14 km (8.7 mi) away from Tirupati and 39 km (24 mi) from Venkateswara Temple, Tirumala."
"Tirupati airport was established in the year 1976. Then Prime Minister of India, P. V. Narasimha Rao laid the foundation stone for a new terminal building, run way expansion and a radio tower in 1993 at a cost of ₹11 crore (US$1.6 million). The upgraded airport was opened for passenger traffic in 1999 by then Prime Minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee."
Garuda Terminal
"A new integrated terminal referred to as Garuda Terminal was constructed besides the existing domestic terminal in an area of 16,500 square metres (178,000 sq ft) at a cost of ₹175 crore (US$26 million). The terminal can handle 500 domestic and 200 International Passengers at a time.[4] The foundation stone for the Terminal was laid in October 2010 by Manmohan Singh, the then Prime Minister of India.[5][6] Construction began in 2012,[7] and the terminal was inaugurated on 22 October 2015 by present Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi.[8] There are plans to upgrade Tirupati Airport to International status.[9]"
Airlines and destinations
"Airlines Destinations Air Carnival Coimbatore Air Costa Hyderabad Air India Delhi, Hyderabad SpiceJet Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam TruJet Aurangabad, Hyderabad , Cochin (Seasonal)"
"On 17 September 2016, SpiceJet Flight 1047, operating on a scheduled flight from Hyderabad to Tirupati, skid the runway after landing into a sandpit due to technical issues. All the 60 passengers that were boarding the flight were safe.[10]"
"On 15 November 1993, Air India Flight 440 (IC 440), an Airbus 300B2 (Registered VT-EDV), operating on a scheduled flight from Madras (now Chennai) to Hyderabad, crash landed in the paddy fields near Tirupati Airport. It was diverted due to poor weather and ran out of fuel. There was no major injuries but the aircraft was damaged beyond repair.[11][12][13]"
Airport information for VOTP at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"Purnea Airport पूर्णिया हवाई अड्डा Pūrṇiyā Havāī Aḍḍā IATA: none – ICAO: VEPU Summary Airport type Military Operator Indian Air Force Location Purnia Elevation AMSL 129 ft / 39 m Coordinates 25°45′35″N 087°24′36″E﻿ / ﻿25.75972°N 87.41000°E﻿ / 25.75972; 87.41000Coordinates: 25°45′35″N 087°24′36″E﻿ / ﻿25.75972°N 87.41000°E﻿ / 25.75972; 87.41000 Map VEPU Airport in India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 09/27 8,700 2,652 Concrete"
"Purnea Airport (ICAO: VEPU) is located near Purnia in the state of Bihar, India"
Airlines and destinations
"Spirit Air Private Limited, in association with Bangalore-based Door to Door Services Limited (DTDS), started[1] non-scheduled flight services on Patna-Purnea and Purnea-Calcutta routes, flying twice a week to Kolkata and Patna.The flight takes 50 minutes to fly from Purnea to Patna.[2]"
"Porbandar Airport પોરબંદર એરપોર્ટ Pōrabandara ērapōrṭa Terminal Building at Porbandar Airport IATA: PBD – ICAO: VAPR Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Porbandar Elevation AMSL 17 ft / 7 m Coordinates 21°38′55″N 069°39′26″E﻿ / ﻿21.64861°N 69.65722°E﻿ / 21.64861; 69.65722 Website www.airportsindia.org.in Map PBD Show map of Gujarat PBD Show map of India Location of airport in India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 09/27 4,500 1,372 Asphalt"
"Porbandar Airport (IATA: PBD, ICAO: VAPR) is a public airport in Porbandar, Gujarat, India. Apart from civilian operations it also has a military presence in the form of INAS 343 of the Indian Navy and CGAE Porbandar of the Indian Coast Guard. A new terminal building was opened in April 2008.[1]"
"The airfield is spread over 278.32 Acres, has a 4500 feet long runway and an apron that can accommodate 2 ATR 72 aircraft. The new 4000 square metre Terminal Building at Porbandar Airport has been built at a cost of Rs. 13.50 crore. The building has six Check-in Counters and two Conveyor Belts in the Arrivals hall and can handle 100 arriving and 100 departing passengers at a time.[1]"
Military Enclaves
"The Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Squadron INAS 343 at the Naval Air Enclave, Porbander was commissioned in January 2011. This is the first Operational UAV Squadron under the Western Naval Command. Nicknamed ‘Frontier Formidables’, the Squadron operates IAI Heron and IAI Searcher MkII UAVs and has the dual tasks of undertaking operational missions besides providing training.[2]"
"Coast Guard Air Enclave, Porbandar, was commissioned on 12 June 2008.[3] It provides logistical and administrative support to the Dornier Flight and 850 Sqn(ICG) which operates the Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH).[4]"
Airport information for VAPR at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006. Official site
Airlines and destinations
Modernization
"INS Baaz Bird's eye view of INS Baaz IATA: none – ICAO: none Summary Airport type Naval Air Station Operator Indian Navy Location Campbell Bay, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, India Runways Direction Length Surface m ft 1,100 3,500 Asphalt"
"INS Baaz is an Indian naval air station under the joint-services Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) of the Indian Armed Forces. It is located near Campbell Bay, on Great Nicobar island in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands.[1] It is the southernmost air station of the Indian Armed Forces.[2] It overlooks the Strait of Malacca as well as the Six Degree channel between Great Nicobar and the Indonesian island of Sumatra.[3]"
"INS Baaz was commissioned by the Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Nirmal Kumar Verma on July 31, 2012. It is the first air station in the Nicobar Islands, situated on the Great Nicobar island in the remotest and southernmost part of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and lies very close to the Six Degree channel, a vital choke point. The commissioning of the air station will facilitate positioning of maritime reconnaissance aircraft and helicopters of ANC and also facilitate the Civil Administration to operate regular intra-island sorties. The Naval air station will provide requisite logistic, communication and administrative support for various aircraft undertaking surveillance, patrolling missions and maritime air operations. The strategically located INS Baaz will enable India to extend its reach in the eastern Indian Ocean region.[3]"
"Commander SK Singh Deo is the first commanding officer of INS Baaz. INS Baaz will initially be used as a base for the Indian Navy's Dornier Do 228 reconnaissance aircraft. It can also operate the Indian Air Force's C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft. Its runway measures 3,500 feet (1,100 m) and will be progressively lengthened to enable all heavy aircraft to operate from the base.[3]"
"There are plans to extend the runway to 6,000 feet by 2016 and then to 10,000 feet. The Indian Navy has been flying new Boeing P8i Poseidon surveillance aircraft with anti-submarine capabilities from India to Port Blair but once the runway is at 6,000 feet they would also rotate through Campbell Bay from time to time.[4]"
"Airlines Destinations Indian Air Force Car Nicobar, Port Blair[5]"
New terminal
Overview
Seaplane services
"Veer Savarkar International Airport वीर सावरकर अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय हवाई अड्डा Vīra Sāvarakara Antarrāshṭrīya Havāī Aḍḍā IATA: IXZ – ICAO: VOPB Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India Hub for Jal Hans Elevation AMSL 14 ft / 4 m Coordinates 11°38′28″N 092°43′47″E﻿ / ﻿11.64111°N 92.72972°E﻿ / 11.64111; 92.72972Coordinates: 11°38′28″N 092°43′47″E﻿ / ﻿11.64111°N 92.72972°E﻿ / 11.64111; 92.72972 Map IXZ Show map of Andaman and Nicobar Islands IXZ Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 04/22 10,795 3,290 Asphalt Statistics (2014) Passenger movements 815,873(7.8%) Aircraft movements 9,642(14.1%) Cargo tonnage 3,046(13.4%) Source: AAI[1][2]"
"Veer Savarkar International Airport also known as Port Blair Airport (IATA: IXZ, ICAO: VOPB), is a customs airport located 2 km (1.2 mi) south of Port Blair and is the main airport of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands of India. It is named after the Indian freedom fighter Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. It operates as a civil enclave, sharing airside facilities with INS Utkrosh of the Indian Navy. [3]"
"The airport has a single runway of 3,290 m (10,794 ft) in length, accommodating most narrow-body aircraft, that includes Airbus A320, Airbus A321, Boeing 737. Restricted Area Permits for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are available on entry. Except for the civilian terminal operated by the Airports Authority of India, all other air traffic operations over Port Blair are undertaken by the Indian Navy.[4]"
"There is only one terminal with 2 gates and no aerobridges. Buses are used to provide transportation from the terminal to the aircraft parked on the apron. In 2009, construction work commenced to expand the apron."
"A new terminal building is under construction and is scheduled for commissioning by March 2018. The AAI had initially projected a requirement of 26 acres of land for construction of the new terminal building. The local administration reduced it to almost 19 acres, 10.60 acres of which has been acquired from the Andaman & Nicobar Administration, 4.72 acres is from the Indian Navy, and the remaining 3.39 acres is yet to be acquired.[3]"
"Airlines Destinations Air India Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Visakhapatnam SpiceJet Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata GoAir Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad (begins 22 December 2016),[5] Kolkata, Mumbai IndiGo Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata Jet Airways Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune Vistara Delhi, Kolkata"
"Airlines Destinations Jal Hans Diglipur, Havelock Island, Little Andaman"
Vir Savarkar Airport (official Airports Authority of India web site) Port Blair Airport - India Airport Global Website Airport information for VOPB at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
Veer Savarkar International Airport
"Vijayawada Airport విజయవాడ విమానాశ్రయము Vijayavāḍa Vimānāśrayamu IATA: VGA – ICAO: VOBZ Summary Airport type Public Owner AAI Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Vijayawada Location Gannavaram  India Hub for Air Costa Elevation AMSL 82 ft / 25 m Coordinates 16°31′59.88″N 80°40′0″E﻿ / ﻿16.5333000°N 80.66667°E﻿ / 16.5333000; 80.66667Coordinates: 16°31′59.88″N 80°40′0″E﻿ / ﻿16.5333000°N 80.66667°E﻿ / 16.5333000; 80.66667 Map VGA Show map of Andhra Pradesh VGA Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 08/26 7,500 2,286 Asphalt Statistics (Apr 2015 - Mar 2016) Passenger movements 3,98,643 (71.9%) Aircraft movements 6,676 (43.9%) Source: AAI,[1][2][3]"
"Vijayawada Airport (IATA: VGA, ICAO: VOBZ) is a public airport serving Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, India. The airport is located 13.5 km (8.4 mi) from the city, on National Highway 16 connecting Chennai to Kolkata. Its runway was extended in 2011, allowing for the operation of bigger aircraft.[4] The airport will also serve Amaravati, the proposed capital of Andhra Pradesh. Hence, in anticipation of an increase in air traffic from the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) is developing and making infrastructural changes to the airport.[5]"
"The airfield served as an army base during the World War II, after which it was converted into a civilian airport. Air Deccan introduced a daily service between Hyderabad and Vijayawada in September 2003.[6] Until 2011, the airport had only four flights a day operated by Kingfisher Airlines.[7] In 2011, flag carrier Air India and private airlines Spicejet and Jet Airways introduced direct flights from to the airport. Air Costa, a regional airline started operations in October 2013, with Vijayawada as its operational hub."
"The airport covers an area of 537 acres (217 ha) and the runway is 2,286 metres (7,500 ft) long. The airport has parking bays for four ATR 72/Bombardier Q400, and one Boeing 737/Airbus A320[8]"
Airlines and destinations
"Airlines Destinations Air Costa Bangalore, Visakhapatnam Air India Delhi, Hyderabad Air India Regional Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam SpiceJet Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Tirupati, Visakhapatnam"
"On 28 August 1980, Vickers Viscount VT-DJC of Huns Air was damaged beyond economic repair when the nosewheel collapsed after the aircraft bounced three times on landing.[9]"
Vijayawada Airport Airport information for VOBZ at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"Muzaffarpur Airport मुजफ्फरपुर हवाई अड्डा Mujaphpharapura Havāī Aḍḍā IATA: MZU – ICAO: VEMZ Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Muzaffarpur & North Bihar Location Muzaffarpur Elevation AMSL 174 ft / 53 m Coordinates 26°07′09″N 085°18′49″E﻿ / ﻿26.11917°N 85.31361°E﻿ / 26.11917; 85.31361Coordinates: 26°07′09″N 085°18′49″E﻿ / ﻿26.11917°N 85.31361°E﻿ / 26.11917; 85.31361 Map Muzaffarpur Airport Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 10/28 3,990 1,216 Asphalt"
"Muzaffarpur Airport (IATA: MZU, ICAO: VEMZ) is an under-construction civil airport at Muzaffarpur, in the state of Bihar, India. It was to be built for the arrival of Indira Gandhi, the then Prime Minister of India. The airport is to be built over 102 acres, located five kilometers west of the city on State Highway 46. In a bid to give a boost to civil aviation sector and enhance air connectivity to Tier-II and Tier-III cities, the government has proposed to set up a low-cost airport here.[1]"
"The airport is located at an elevation of 174 feet (53 m) above mean sea level. It has one paved runway designated 10/28 which measures 3,990 (1,216 m) with asphalt surface.[1]"
Muzaffarpur Airport - India Airport Global Website Airport information for VEMZ at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"Karnal Airport करनाल हवाई अड्डा ਕਰਨਾਲ ਹਵਾਈ ਅੱਡਾ IATA: none – ICAO: VI40 Karnal Airport Summary Airport type Private/Public Owner Civil Aviation Department, Haryana Operator Haryana Institute of Civil Aviation Location Karnal Elevation AMSL 829 ft / 253.51 m Coordinates 29°42′51″N 77°02′15″E﻿ / ﻿29.71417°N 77.03750°E﻿ / 29.71417; 77.03750Coordinates: 29°42′51″N 77°02′15″E﻿ / ﻿29.71417°N 77.03750°E﻿ / 29.71417; 77.03750 Website http://www.karnal.gov.in/dept_aviation.asp Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 31/13 3,000 917 Asphalt"
"Karnal Airport, (ICAO: VI40), the home of ""Karnal Aviation Club"" (""Karnal Flying Club""), is an airstrip situated about 3 km east of Karnal in the state of Haryana, India. It is being used for General Aviation and Pilot Training. There are no scheduled commercial flight operations."
Air strip was set up in 1967.[1]
"In 2012, The (DGCA) approved the Haryana state government's plans to develop the Airport to operate Domestic Passenger Services in August 2013. Karnal Aerodrome small runway, just 3,000-feet-long and 150-feet-wide, will be extended to 4,500 feet in the first phase and then up to 6,000 feet to accommodate ATR Turboprops and jets. Installation of Runway lighting was taken up by the State Public Works Department after the DGCA gave approval for night flying in July 2012.[2]"
Government of Haryana's Karnal Aviation Club of Haryana Institute of Civil Aviation offers flying training and preparation courses to the Pilots for the following Directorate General of Civil Aviation (India) licenses:
"Mopa Airport मोपा विमानतळ Mopā Vimānataḷa IATA: none – ICAO: none Summary Airport type Public Owner/Operator GMR Goa International Airport Limited Location Mopa, Goa"
"The proposed greenfield Mopa Airport will be built at Mopa in Pernem taluka, North Goa district in the State of Goa, India. GMR Goa International Airport Limited (GMRGIAL), a special purpose vehicle (SPV), will develop the airport.[1] The Rs. 3000 Crore airport will be built under the Build Operate Transfer (BOT) model in four phases, with the first phase costing a total of Rs 1,500 crore. The airport will cater to 4.4 million passengers in the first phase and 13.1 million by the end of the fourth phase."
"GMR Airports Limited, a subsidiary of GMR Infrastructure Limited won the competitive bid in August 2016 to develop and operate the airport. The concession period for the Greenfield project will be 40 years with a possible extension of another 20 years through a bid process.[2] Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the project on 13 November 2016.[3]"
"Jamnagar Airport જામનગર વિમાનમથક Jāmanagara Vimānamathaka IATA: JGA – ICAO: VAJM Summary Owner Indian Air Force Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Jamnagar, Dwarka, Porbandar, Jamkhambhaliya Location Jamnagar Elevation AMSL 69 ft / 21 m Coordinates 22°27′56″N 070°00′45″E﻿ / ﻿22.46556°N 70.01250°E﻿ / 22.46556; 70.01250 Map JGA Show map of Gujarat JGA Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 06/24 8,242 2,512 Concrete 12/30 8,236 2,510 Asphalt Statistics (Apr '15 – Mar '16) Passenger Movements 84,403 ( 10.2%) Aircraft Movements 760 ( 0.8%) (includes only scheduled flights) Cargo Handled 315.7 tonnes ( 86.4%) Source:[1][2]"
"Jamnagar Airport or the Govardhanpur Airport Jamnagar (IATA: JGA, ICAO: VAJM) is an airport in Jamnagar, Gujarat, India. It is owned by the Indian Air Force and also permits both commercial as well as private flights. The Jaguar squadron based in Jamnagar was awarded best squadron by Air Chief Marshal, and the Jamnagar base was awarded the 'Best Flying Station' for the year 2006.[3] It is the only airport in Gujarat which has two runways."
"According to a survey conducted by GIDB (Gujarat Infrastructure Development Board), traffic at Jamnagar airport grew at 15% between 2003 and 2008. Compared to other airports in Gujarat, Jamnagar airport has low market share but high growth. The domestic passenger demand would increase by 6% between 2016 and 2020."
"During the evacuation of Indian nationals from Yemen in April 2015, a C-17 Globemaster of the Indian Air Force was sent to Djibouti from the Jamnagar Airport.[4]"
Terminal
Jamnagar Airport has a single terminal spread over 35 acres. It has a capacity to handle 150 passengers at a given time. It has a small lounge including a cafeteria before the check-in counter. There is a conveyor belt in the arrivals area for the luggage. The parking apron adjoining the terminal measures 295 ft x 295 ft and can handle two Airbus A320s simultaneously.[5] The airport has a car parking capacity of about 50 cars.
Airlines and destinations
"Jamnagar has daily scheduled flights to Mumbai served by an Airbus A319. From the winter of 2015, Air India is going to operate the larger Airbus A320 instead of the A319. The now defunct carrier Air Deccan operated daily flights between Jamnagar and Mumbai.[6] Earlier, Indian Airlines operated flight between Jamnagar and Mumbai via Bhuj."
Airlines Destinations Air India Regional Mumbai
Accidents and incidents
"On August 30, 2012, at around 12:30 pm IST two Mi-17 helicopters of the IAF collided with each other while carrying out formation flying and firing exercise. Nine officials including five officers died in the crash. On January 31, 2015, an IAF MiG-21 crashed near Jamnagar but the pilot ejected safely."
"Maneyapanda Muthanna Somaya is a former Indian field hockey player from Coorg, Karnataka.[1] He was a member of Indian squad in many international games, including the team that won the Gold medal at the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympic Games.[2] Somaya went on to play two more Olympic Games, viz., 1984 Los Angeles Summer Olympic Games, and 1988 Seoul Summer Olympic Games. He was the captain of the 1988 Olympics team.[3]"
In 2007 Somaya was bestowed the Life Time Achievement award by the Government of India.[2] He is also a recipient of Arjuna Award.[4] He works for Bharat Petroleum in Mumbai.
"Campbell Bay कैम्पबेल बे village Campbell Bay is located in the eastern part of the Great Nicobar Island Campbell Bay Location in India Coordinates: 7°00′27″N 93°54′17″E﻿ / ﻿7.007565°N 93.9047849°E﻿ / 7.007565; 93.9047849Coordinates: 7°00′27″N 93°54′17″E﻿ / ﻿7.007565°N 93.9047849°E﻿ / 7.007565; 93.9047849 Country India State Andaman and Nicobar Islands District Nicobar Tehsil Great Nicobar Elevation 76 m (249 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 5,736 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) 2011 census code 645200"
Demographics
"According to the 2011 census of India, Campbell Bay has 1608 households. The effective literacy rate (i.e. the literacy rate of population excluding children aged 6 and below) is 86.28%.[2]"
Demographics (2011 Census)[2] Total Male Female Population 5736 3362 2374 Children aged below 6 years 692 369 323 Scheduled caste 0 0 0 Scheduled tribe 453 256 197 Literates 4352 2708 1644 Workers (all) 2707 2224 483 Main workers (total) 2417 2037 380 Main workers: Cultivators 38 28 10 Main workers: Agricultural labourers 21 21 0 Main workers: Household industry workers 7 5 2 Main workers: Other 2351 1983 368 Marginal workers (total) 290 187 103 Marginal workers: Cultivators 24 15 9 Marginal workers: Agricultural labourers 34 25 9 Marginal workers: Household industry workers 7 1 6 Marginal workers: Others 225 146 79 Non-workers 3029 1138 1891
"Campbell Bay National Park is a part of Great Nicobar Biosphere Reserve. This national park is spread over 426 km2 in the northern part of Great Nicobar. The park reserve's flora includes tropical evergreen forest, tree fern, and orchids and fauna includes Crab-eating macaque, giant robber crab, megapode, and Nicobar pigeon.This comes along the basin side of Glatiya river.The capital of these islands is Portblair, these Islands were named Swaraj Shahid Island by Netaji Subash Chandra bose."
Campbell Bay (Great Nicobar)
INS Baaz
"INS Baaz was inaugurated on 31 July 2012 by Admiral Nirmal Verma of Indian Navy.[3][4] INS BAAZ is a full-fledged ""forward operating base"" of the Indian Naval Air Arm at the very southernmost tip of the Andaman Nicobar Islands. The Naval Air Station (NAS) Campbell Bay overlooking the six degree Channel, one of the most crucial shipping lanes of the world, will soon become India's eye over the Malacca strait and the Bay of Bengal.[5][6]"
"Raigarh Airport रायगढ़ हवाई अड्डा Rāyagaṛha Havāī Aḍḍā IATA: none – ICAO: none Summary Airport type Public Operator AAI Serves Raigarh Location Kondatarai, Chhattisgarh, India Elevation AMSL 791 ft / 241 m Coordinates 21°49′26″N 83°21′37″E﻿ / ﻿21.82389°N 83.36028°E﻿ / 21.82389; 83.36028Coordinates: 21°49′26″N 83°21′37″E﻿ / ﻿21.82389°N 83.36028°E﻿ / 21.82389; 83.36028 Map Raigarh Location of airport in India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 12/30 3,940 1,200 asphalt"
"Raigarh Airport is located near Kondatarai, 9 km (5.6 mi) south of Raigarh, in Chhattisgarh, India. The air strip is used mainly for small aircraft and choppers.[1]"
Expansion
"The State Government signed a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) on 24 July 2013 to develop Raigarh as the state's second airport for domestic flights. The airport is expected become operational by May 2017, initially only catering to 70 seater aircraft like the ATR-72. [1] The airport will be developed in two phases over three years. The runway will be upgraded to 1,870 metres in the first phase and to 2,000 metres in the second. Total cost is estimated to be Rs. 280 crores.[2]"
"Tezu Airport तेजु हवाई अड्डे IATA: TEI – ICAO: VETJ Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Location Tezu Elevation AMSL 600 ft / 183 m Coordinates 27°56′30″N 96°08′05″E﻿ / ﻿27.9417°N 96.1346°E﻿ / 27.9417; 96.1346Coordinates: 27°56′30″N 96°08′05″E﻿ / ﻿27.9417°N 96.1346°E﻿ / 27.9417; 96.1346 Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 14/22 4,500 1,372 N/A"
"Tezu Airport (IATA: TEI, ICAO: VETJ) is located at Tezu in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, India. The development of the airport, at a cost of Rs. 790 million, was approved during 2009-10.[1] The new runway, terminal building and air traffic control tower were completed by 2014.[2] after which the airport can handle ATR 72 type of aircraft."
Airlines and destinations
No scheduled commercial air service at this time.
"Sri Sathya Sai Airport శ్రీ సత్య సాయి విమానాశ్రయం Śrī Satya Sāyi Vimānāśrayaṁ A Kingfisher Airlines Airbus A320 at the airport, operating a charter flight for Sathya Sai Baba IATA: PUT – ICAO: VOPN Summary Airport type Private Location Puttaparthi Elevation AMSL 1,558 ft / 475 m Coordinates 14°08′57″N 077°47′28″E﻿ / ﻿14.14917°N 77.79111°E﻿ / 14.14917; 77.79111Coordinates: 14°08′57″N 077°47′28″E﻿ / ﻿14.14917°N 77.79111°E﻿ / 14.14917; 77.79111 Map PUT Show map of Andhra Pradesh PUT Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 09/27 7,315 2,230 Asphalt"
"Sri Sathya Sai Airport (IATA: PUT, ICAO: VOPN) is located at Puttaparthi in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. The airport is named after Bhagawan Sathya Sai Baba, an Indian Avatar. It is a small airport with facilities for chartered flights rather than commercial aircraft. The airport was inaugurated on November 24, 1990 to serve the Super Specialty Hospital for emergency situations. The 1000 metre long airstrip was constructed by L&T ECC. It was later extended to enable the operation of jet aircraft.[1]"
"Until the year 2008, the Sri Sathya Sai Airport had scheduled flights to Mumbai and to Chennai airport operated by Indian Airlines[2] These flights ceased when Indian airlines was merged with Air India. By this time, the airlines only operated flights to Bangalore thrice a week. [3][4] On November 12, 2005, the Indian low-cost carrier Air Deccan commenced operations from and to Hyderabad and Chennai twice a day.[5] Kingfisher Airlines continued this flight to Puttaparthi until 2008, when all scheduled flights to Puttaparthi officially ceased."
Access
Airlines and destinations
Infrastructure
Statistics
"Jammu Airport جموں ہوائی اڈا Jamūn̲ Havā'ī Aḍā IATA: IXJ – ICAO: VIJU Summary Airport type Military/Public Owner Indian Air Force[1] Operator Airports Authority of India and Indian Air Force Location Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir, India Elevation AMSL 1,029 ft / 314 m Coordinates 32°41′21″N 074°50′15″E﻿ / ﻿32.68917°N 74.83750°E﻿ / 32.68917; 74.83750 Map IXJ Show map of Jammu and Kashmir IXJ Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 18/36 6,699 2,042 Asphalt Statistics (2014) Passenger movements 915,580(8.28%) Aircraft movements 10,063 Cargo tonnage 1,486 Source: AAI,[2][3]"
"Jammu Airport, also known as Satwari Airport,[4] (IATA: IXJ, ICAO: VIJU) is a civil airport in Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is situated 14 km (8.7 miles) from the international border between India and Pakistan."
"The 6,500-square-metre (70,000 sq ft) terminal can only handle domestic flights. It has two gates and fourteen check-in desks.[5] A store selling traditional packaged food items, a shoes shop, a restaurant, and a souvenir store and information desk for pilgrims travelling to the Vaishno Devi temple are among the amenities available in the terminal.[6]"
"The asphalt[7] runway, 18/36, has dimensions 2,042 by 45 metres (6,699 ft × 148 ft).[5] It can handle CAT I instrument landing system approaches. The apron has space to park three Airbus A320 aircraft.[5]"
"Airlines Destinations Air India Delhi, Leh, Srinagar Air India Regional Delhi GoAir Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar IndiGo Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar Vistara Delhi, Srinagar"
"The Airports Authority of India had published data and statistics of the airport between the time period of April 2013 to March 2014. According to this data, Jammu airport is ranked the 27th busiest airport in India, with a total passenger traffic of 845,555. This was a decrease of 1.9% from 2012-2013."
"The airport is located 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) southwest of the city of Jammu, along RS Pura Road.[4][8] There is a car park with 80 spaces. Bus, taxi and car rental services provide transportation to the city.[6]"
Accident history for Jammu Airport at Aviation Safety Network Airport information for Jammu Airport at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006. Jammu Airport at the Airports Authority of India
"The Cricket World Cup is an international cricket competition established in 1975.[1] It is contested by the men's national teams of the members of the International Cricket Council (ICC), the sport's global governing body.[2] The tournament generally takes place every four years. Most recently, the 2015 Cricket World Cup, jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand, was won by Australia, who beat their co-hosts New Zealand. The current trophy was instituted in 1999. It always remains with the ICC, and a replica is awarded to the winning team.[3][4]"
Results by country
Map of winning countries
"National team Final appearances Winners Runners-up Years won Years runners-up  Australia Cr 1 Australia 7 5 2 1987, 1999,2003, 2007, 2015 1975, 1996  India 3 2 1 1983, 2011 2003  West Indies 3 2 1 1975, 1979 1983  Sri Lanka 3 1 2 1996 2007, 2011  Pakistan 2 1 1 1992 1999  England 3 0 3 – 1979, 1987, 1992  New Zealand 1 0 1 – 2015"
Lord's has hosted the final four times.
Australia's Adam Gilchrist made sizeable contributions with the bat in three consecutive finals.
"List of finals, along with the host nation and location and result of the final Year Winner Result Runner-up Final venue Host nation(s)[2] Attendance 1975  West Indies 291/8 (60 overs) West Indies won by 17 runs[11]  Australia 274 all out (58.4 overs) Lord's, London England 24,000 1979  West Indies 286/9 (60 overs) West Indies won by 92 runs[16]  England 194 all out (51 overs) Lord's, London England 32,000 1983  India 183 all out (54.4 overs) India won by 43 runs[20]  West Indies 140 all out (52 overs) Lord's, London England 30,000 1987  Australia 253/5 (50 overs) Australia won by 7 runs[21]  England 246/8 (50 overs) Eden Gardens, Kolkata, India India, Pakistan 95,000 1992  Pakistan 249/6 (50 overs) Pakistan won by 22 runs[23]  England 227 all out (49.2 overs) MCG, Melbourne, Australia Australia, New Zealand 87,182 1996  Sri Lanka 245/3 (46.2 overs) Sri Lanka won by 7 wickets[25]  Australia 241/7 (50 overs) Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore, Pakistan India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka 62,645 1999  Australia 133/2 (20.1 overs) Australia won by 8 wickets[28]  Pakistan 132 all out (39 overs) Lord's, London England, Wales, Ireland, Scotland, Netherlands 30,000 2003  Australia 359/2 (50 overs) Australia won by 125 runs[30]  India 234 all out (39.2 overs) Wanderers, Johannesburg, South Africa Kenya, South Africa, Zimbabwe 32,827 2007  Australia 281/4 (38 overs) Australia won by 53 runs [32]  Sri Lanka 215/8 (36 overs) Kensington Oval, Bridgetown West Indies 28,108 2011  India 277/4 (48.2 overs) India won by 6 wickets[35]  Sri Lanka 274/6 (50 overs) Wankhede Stadium, Mumbai, India Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka 42,000 2015  Australia 186/3 (33.1 overs) Australia won by 7 wickets  New Zealand 183 all out (45 overs) MCG, Melbourne, Australia Australia, New Zealand 93,013"
Airlines and destinations
Cargo
Facilities
Ground transportation
"Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport जयप्रकाश नारायण अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय हवाई अड्डा Jayaprakāśa Nārāyaṇa Antarrāshṭrīya Havāī Aḍḍā लोक नायक जयप्रकाश नारायण अंतराष्ट्रीय हवाई अड्डा , पटना IATA: PAT – ICAO: VEPT Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Serves Patna, India Elevation AMSL 170 ft / 52 m Coordinates 25°35′37″N 085°05′31″E﻿ / ﻿25.59361°N 85.09194°E﻿ / 25.59361; 85.09194Coordinates: 25°35′37″N 085°05′31″E﻿ / ﻿25.59361°N 85.09194°E﻿ / 25.59361; 85.09194 Map PAT Show map of Bihar PAT Show map of India Runways Direction Length Surface m ft 07/25 2,000 6,561 Asphalt Statistics (2014) Passenger movements 1,154,685(10.58%) Aircraft movements 10,304 Cargo tonnage 5,296 Source: AAI,[1][2]"
"Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport (IATA: PAT, ICAO: VEPT) is located 5 kilometres (2.7 NM) southwest of Patna, the capital of state of Bihar in India.[3] It is the 23rd busiest airport in India, and the annual passenger traffic increased by 32 per cent in the 2015-16.[4] The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has proposed to extend the terminal over an area of 11.5 acres for sustaining air operations at least till 2035. A new terminal building would be constructed and connected to the existing building via skybridge. In addition, the AAI has planned to develop a civil enclave at Bihta Air Force Station, 20 kilometres away from Patna, to cater to larger aircraft.[4] In October 2016, Bihar cabinet approved the Patna master plan which envisages development of a new airport at Bihta.[5] Bihar government is acquiring 126 acres of land for construction of the new airport.[6]"
"The airport covers an area of 254 acres (103 ha) and resides at an elevation of 170 feet (52 m) above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 07/25 with an asphalt surface measuring 1,954 by 45 metres (6,411 ft × 148 ft).[7][8]"
"Airlines Destinations Air India Delhi GoAir Bangalore, Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ranchi IndiGo Bangalore, Chennai,[9] Delhi, Goa, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Ranchi, Raipur Jet Airways Delhi, Kolkata"
Airlines Destinations Blue Dart Aviation Delhi
Private taxis and prepaid autorickshaw services are available to and from the airport.[10]
"On 17 July 2000, Alliance Air Flight 7412 crashed near the airport, killing 60 people.[11]"
Patna Airport - India Airport Global Website Patna Airport webpage at official Airports Authority of India web site. Airport information for VEPT at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
A customs airport is an airport notified by the appropriate customs authority of the country as an airport which shall be airports for the unloading of imported goods and the loading of export goods or any class of such goods. Such places the places which alone shall be inland container depots for the unloading of imported goods and the loading of and clearance of export goods or any class of such goods.
"Customs airports may not have international commercial flights but if they have the customs officers may only be in attendance for scheduled international services.[1] Such airports may also have boarding stations in it or near them for the purpose of boarding of, or disembarkation from, vessels by officers of customs.[2]"
"There are may types of Customs Airport in the world. But, there are more customs airport in India like"
"Madurai Airport, India Vizag Airport, India Bagdogra Airport, India"
Tanga Airport in Tanzania
Mumbai airport domestic departure terminal 1C (4)
"Overview of Moorabbin Airport, Melbourne, Australia"
A domestic airport is an airport that handles only domestic flights—flights within the same country. Domestic airports do not have customs and immigration facilities and so cannot handle flights to or from a foreign airport.
"These airports normally have short runways sufficient to handle short or medium haul aircraft and regional air traffic. They have in many countries not had any security check / metal detector, but such checks have been added in recent years."
"Most municipal airports in Canada and the United States are of this classification. At international airports in Canada, there are domestic terminals that handle flights within Canada (flying from one Canadian city to another)."
Regional airport
"A regional airport is an airport serving traffic within a relatively small or lightly populated geographical area. A regional airport usually does not have customs and immigration facilities to process traffic between countries. In Canada regional airports usually service connections within Canada and some flights to the United States. A few U.S. regional airports, some of which actually call themselves international airports, may have customs and immigration facilities staffed on an as-needed basis, but the vast majority serve domestic traffic only."
Air base facilities
Aircraft carrier
Road air base
"A military air base (sometimes referred to as a military airfield, military airport, air force station, air force base or short air base) is an aerodrome used by a military force for the operation of military aircraft."
"An air base typically has some facilities similar to a civilian airport—for example air traffic control and firefighting. Some military aerodromes have passenger facilities; for example RAF Brize Norton in England has a terminal used by passengers for the Royal Air Force's flights by TriStar to the Falkland Islands. A number of military air bases also have a civil enclave for commercial passenger flights, e.g. Beijing Nanyuan Airport (China), Chandigarh International Airport (India), Ibaraki Airport (Japan), Burlington International Airport (USA)."
"Some air bases have revetments, hardened aircraft shelters, or even underground hangars, to protect aircraft from enemy attack. Combat aircraft require storage of aircraft ordnance. An air base may be defended by anti-aircraft weapons and force protection troops."
"Road air bases are highways constructed to double as auxiliary air bases in the event of war. Nations known to utilize this strategy are India,[1] Sweden,[2] Finland, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland,[3] South Korea, Turkey, Poland and Pakistan. In the case of Finnish road air bases, the space needed for landing aircraft is reduced by means of an arrestor wire, similar to that used on some aircraft carriers.[4]"
"An aircraft carrier is a type of naval ship which serves as a seaborne air base, the development of which has greatly enhanced the capabilities of modern air forces. They are now a key part of the military, allowing for military aircraft to be staged much nearer the theatre of conflict. Aircraft carriers were vital to the United States during World War II and to the United Kingdom in the 1982 Falklands War. They retain modern roles as well as ""several acres of sovereign territory a nation can move about at will,"" which allows greater flexibility in diplomacy as well as military affairs. Aircraft carriers are also used in disaster relief."
Flight training is a course of study used when learning to pilot an aircraft. The overall purpose of primary and intermediate flight training is the acquisition and honing of basic airmanship skills.[1]
"Flight training consists of a combination of flight lessons given in the aircraft or a simulator and ground school, where theory is learned in preparation for the written examinations.[2]"
"Although there are various types of aircraft, many of the principles of piloting them have common techniques, especially those aircraft which are heavier than air types."
Type conversion
"A type conversion, commonly known throughout Australia and Europe as an endorsement, or in the United States as a ""type rating"",[5] is the process undertaken by a pilot to update their license to allow them to fly a different type of aircraft."
References
Flight training
"Along Airport आलोएनजी हवाई अड्डे IATA: IXV – ICAO: VEAN Summary Airport type Military Operator Indian Air Force Serves Along, Arunachal Pradesh Elevation AMSL 900 ft / 274 m Coordinates 28°10′31″N 094°48′07″E﻿ / ﻿28.17528°N 94.80194°E﻿ / 28.17528; 94.80194 Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 05/23 3,000 914 Asphalt"
"Along Airport (IATA: IXV, ICAO: VEAN) also known as Aalo Airport is located at Along in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, India."
The Government of Arunachal Pradesh handed over the airstrip to the Ministry of Defence in June 2009.[1] The government has proposed to operationalise a civil enclave at the airport.[2]
The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had sent a report to the state government and the Indian Air Force in July 2011 for the removal of obstacles around the aerodrome for safe flight operations and cited a requirement of seven acres of land for the development of the civil enclave.[3]
No scheduled commercial air service at this time.
Incidents
"On 7 April 1964, a Kalinga Airlines Dakota overshot the runway and caught fire. There were no casualties, though the aircraft was damaged beyond economic repair.[4]"
Along Airport Airport information for VEAN at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"NAS Shibpur IATA: IN-0053 – ICAO: VODX Summary Airport type Naval Air Station Operator Indian Navy Location Shibpur, Diglipur, Andaman & Nicobar Islands Coordinates 13°14′0″N 93°3′0″E﻿ / ﻿13.23333°N 93.05000°E﻿ / 13.23333; 93.05000 Runways Direction Length Surface m ft 1,000 3,281 [1][2]"
"NAS Shibpur (IATA: IN 0053, ICAO: VODX) is an Indian naval air station under the joint-services Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) of the Indian Armed Forces. It is located at Shibpur, a village located on North Andaman Island.[3][4]"
"NAS Shibpur was established in 2001 as a Forward Operating Air Base (FOAB) for enhanced surveillance in North Andaman. Presently, Dornier Do 228 aircraft and HAL Chetak helicopters of the navy and the Indian Coast Guard land at Shibpur once in a week, on their transit for surveillance of North Andaman Islands. In addition, the Indian Air Force operates its Dornier aircraft between Port Blair and Diglipur every Thursday for courier duties. In 2009, the government of India accorded sanction to commission NAS Shibpur as a full-fledged air station.[5] The length of the runway is being extended to 12,000 ft and will enable day and night operations.[6]"
Dornier Do 228s of the navy and coast guard conducted search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 from this base.[7]
"Daman Airport IATA: NMB – ICAO: VADN Summary Airport type Military Operator Indian Coast Guard Location Daman, India Elevation AMSL 33 ft / 10 m Coordinates 20°26′04″N 072°50′36″E﻿ / ﻿20.43444°N 72.84333°E﻿ / 20.43444; 72.84333Coordinates: 20°26′04″N 072°50′36″E﻿ / ﻿20.43444°N 72.84333°E﻿ / 20.43444; 72.84333 Map Daman Airport Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 03/21 5,909 1,801 Asphalt 09/27 3,282 1,000 Asphalt"
"Daman Airport (IATA: NMB, ICAO: VADN) is a military airbase located at Daman in the Union Territory of Daman and Diu, India. It is home to the Indian Coast Guard Air Station, Daman which provides ATC and parking facilities to Defence as well as civilian aircraft. [1]"
"Daman airport was built in the 1950s by the Government of Portuguese India. The TAIP (Portuguese India Airlines) commenced operations to Daman on 29 August 1955. TAIP linked Daman with Goa, Diu and Karachi until December 1961, when Daman was invaded by the Indian Armed Forces, with TAIP ceasing operations. [2] The Indian Coast Guard deployed its first Dornier Squadron at Daman in January 1987 followed by its first full-fledged Air Station in October 1987.[1]"
Structure
"Daman Airport has two intersecting asphalt runways. Main runway 03/21 is 5910 ft (1801 m) long and 45 m wide while secondary Runway 10/28 is 3284 ft (1001 m) long and 25 m wide.The Airport is equipped with state of art Airport Surveillance Radar (ASR), Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI), Doppler Very High Frequency Omni directional Radio Range (DVOR) – Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) & Non-Directional Beacon (NDB), as Navigational Aids. [1]"
Indian Coast Guard Air Station
The station has two squadrons under its administrative and operational control.
"The station also caters for maritime reconnaissance and SAR coverage along the North West coast. Dornier and Chetak aircraft are detached from Daman for various operational commitment along the North West Coast. Conduct of adventurous activities is a regular feature, for that the station is equipped with one Micro light aircraft and one power glider. The training for Sea Cadet Corps are also undertaken at the air station.[1]"
Airlines and destinations
No scheduled commercial air service at this time.
Airport information for VADN at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"Chandu Sarwate Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm off-break, Leg-break International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 9 171 Runs scored 208 7430 Batting average 13.00 32.73 100s/50s -/- 14/38 Top score 37 246 Balls bowled 658 27533 Wickets 3 494 Bowling average 124.66 23.54 5 wickets in innings - 26 10 wickets in match - 3 Best bowling 1/16 9/61 Catches/stumpings -/- 91/- Source:"
"Chandrasekhar Trimbak Sarwate  pronunciation  (known as Chandu or Chandra; 22 July 1920 in Sagor, Madhya Pradesh – 23 December 2003 in Indore) was an Indian cricketer. He was an all-rounder who played nine Test matches for India between 1946 and 1951 without much success — his Test batting average was only 13.00, and his Test bowling average was 124.66. He bowled slow leg breaks."
"However, in first-class cricket, he had a long career, spanning 32 years, during which he represented Central Provinces and Berar, Maharashtra, Hindus, Bombay, Holkar, Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha. His most famous innings was for the Indians against Surrey at The Oval in 1946, when he and Shute Banerjee put on 249 for the last wicket, more than the first nine wickets put together. It is the only time in first-class cricket when the last two batsmen have both scored centuries. It remains the highest partnership in first-class cricket between number ten and eleven batsmen.[1] His highest score was 246 for Holkar against Bengal in 1951, and his best bowling in an innings was 9 for 61 for Holkar against Mysore in 1946. His overall batting average in first-class cricket was 32.73, and his bowling average was 23.54."
"Sarwate was a national selector for three years in the early 1980s, and was one of the selectors who picked the Indian team that won the World Cup in England in 1983. Besides being the secretary of Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association, he was also the chairman of its selection committee on number of occasions. Sarwate held degrees in arts and law and was a fingerprint expert by profession."
"Mushtaq Ali Personal information Full name Syed Mushtaq Ali Born (1914-12-17)17 December 1914 Indore, Madhya Pradesh, india Died 18 June 2005(2005-06-18) (aged 90) Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Slow left-arm orthodox Role All-Rounder International information National side Indian Test debut (cap 19) 5 January 1934 v England Last Test 6 February[Mushtaq Ali] 1952 v England Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 11 226 Runs scored 612 13213 Batting average 32.21 35.90 100s/50s 2/3 30/63 Top score 112 233 Balls bowled 378 9702 Wickets 3 162 Bowling average 67.33 29.34 5 wickets in innings - 6 10 wickets in match - 2 Best bowling 1/45 7/108 Catches/stumpings 7/- 160/- Source:"
"Syed Mushtaq Ali  pronunciation  (17 December 1914 – 18 June 2005) was a former Indian cricketer, and an aggressive Test batsman. Ali holds the distinction of scoring the first Test century by any Indian overseas, when he hit a ton for the team in 1936 at Manchester in England. He was a right handed batsman and a left arm bowler. [1]"
Career
Ali was the discovery of CK Nayudu where CK Nayudu observed him at Indore at the age of 13. CK Nayudu took with him and developed his cricketing skills.[2]
"A Wisden Special Award winner, he scored four first class hundreds in the 1936 tour. He was an opening or middle order right-hand batsman but hardly played international cricket mainly due to World War II. IN total, he played in 11 tests. He made debut in the test against England at Kolkata, Jan 5-8, 1934 and played last test against England at Chennai, Feb 6-10, 1952 at the age of 38."
Domestic cricket
"Ali played extensively for regional team and private clubs when cricket was a young sport in India. He was not only a sporting legend, but a popular superstar of his time, and an icon for the younger generation of Indian youth. Combining with another legend, the cautious yet skilled Vijay Merchant, Ali's aggression and powerful strokeplay formed a dynamic and legendary opening partnership for the team for years."
"He played for Holkar in the National Championship for the Ranji Trophy along with other stalwarts like C K Nayudu. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1964 and made a life member of the Marylebone Cricket Club for his contribution to the game. He died in his sleep, at the age of 90. He is survived by two sons and two daughters. The Indian domestic T20 series is named after him. Mushtaq's son, Gulrez Ali, and his grandson, Abbas Ali, both played first-class cricket."
Teams played
"India, Central India, Gujarat, Holkar, Madhya Bharat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Muslims, Uttar Pradesh"
"Padmashri Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy - This is a Twenty20 cricket domestic championship in India, organized by Board of Control for Cricket in India, among the teams from Ranji Trophy. The 2008-09 season was the inaugural season for this trophy.[4] [5]"
Mushtaq Ali
"M.K. Mantri Personal information Born (1921-09-01)1 September 1921 Nasik, Maharashtra, India Died 23 May 2014(2014-05-23) (aged 92) Mumbai, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm medium Role Wicketkeeper-batsman Relations SM Gavaskar (nephew) International information National side India Test debut (cap 56) 14 December 1951 v England Last Test 4 January 1955 v Pakistan Domestic team information Years Team Maharashta Bombay Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 4 95 Runs scored 67 4403 Batting average 9.57 33.86 100s/50s -/- 7/26 Top score 39 200 Balls bowled - 187 Wickets - 3 Bowling average - 40.33 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 2/38 Catches/stumpings 8/1 136/56 Source:"
"Madhav Krishnaji Mantri  pronunciation  (1 September 1921 – 23 May 2014) was an Indian cricketer who played in four Tests from 1951 to 1955. Born in Nasik, Maharashtra, he was a right-handed opening batsman and specialist wicket-keeper who represented Bombay. He captained Bombay to victory in three Ranji Trophy finals: 1951-52, 1955-56 and 1955-56. He captained Associated Cement Company to victory in the Moin-ud-Dowlah Gold Cup Tournament in 1962-63."
"Mantri played his first Test against England in India in 1951-52 and toured England with the Indian team in 1952 (playing two Tests), and Pakistan in 1954-55 (one Test). His highest score was 200 for Bombay in their victory over Maharashtra in a semi-final of the Ranji Trophy in 1948-49.[1] It was the highest of nine centuries in a match in which 2376 runs were scored, which is still a record in first-class cricket.[2]"
"Mantri was the uncle of former Indian cricket captain Sunil Gavaskar. Until his death, he lived in Hindu Colony, Dadar, Mumbai, and was the oldest living Indian Test cricketer. He suffered a heart attack on 1 May 2014 and was hospitalized at a private clinic. He died following another heart attack on 23 May 2014.[3]"
Playing career
Umpiring career
Umpiring statistics
"Venkataraghavan Personal information Full name Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan Born (1945-04-21) 21 April 1945 Madras, British India Nickname Venkat Batting style Right-hand Bowling style Right-arm off break Role Bowler, umpire International information National side India Test debut (cap 110) 27 February 1965 v New Zealand Last Test 24 September 1983 v Pakistan ODI debut (cap 9) 13 July 1974 v England Last ODI 7 April 1983 v West Indies Domestic team information Years Team 1970–1985 Tamil Nadu 1973–1975 Derbyshire 1963–1970 Madras Umpiring information Tests umpired 73 (1993–2004) ODIs umpired 52 (1993–2003) FC umpired 79 (1990–2004) LA umpired 56 (1990–2003) Career statistics Competition Tests ODI FC LA Matches 57 15 341 71 Runs scored 748 54 6617 346 Batting average 11.68 10.80 17.73 11.16 100s/50s 0/2 –/– 1/24 0/0 Top score 64 26* 137 26* Balls bowled 14877 868 83548 3985 Wickets 156 5 1390 64 Bowling average 36.11 108.40 24.14 35.34 5 wickets in innings 3 – 85 0 10 wickets in match 1 n/a 21 n/a Best bowling 8/72 2/34 9/93 4/31 Catches/stumpings 44/– 4/– 316/– 29/– Source: Cricket Archive, 10 March 2014"
"Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan ( pronunciation  (informally Venkat, born 21 April 1945)[1] is a former Indian cricketer. He played Test cricket for the Indian cricket team, and later became an umpire on the elite International Cricket Council Test panel. His Test career was one of the longest for any Indian player.[2] He also played for Derbyshire in English county cricket from 1973 to 1975. A qualified engineer and an alumnus of Chennai's famed College of Engineering, Guindy,[3] he is a recipient of the civilian honour of Padma Shri.[4]"
"An off spin bowler, he was one of the famed Indian quartet of spin bowlers in the 1970s (the others being Bhagwat Chandrasekhar, Bishan Singh Bedi and Erapalli Prasanna).[2] He was also a strong close-in fielder and a useful tail-end bat.[2] Venkat came on to the Test scene at the age of 20 when he was selected to play against the touring New Zealand side. By the end of the series he had emerged as a world-class spinner, taking 12 wickets in the Delhi test that led India to victory. He was the vice-captain of the Indian team that toured the West Indies and England in 1970–71. India won both series. Venkat played an important role, claiming five wickets in the Trinidad Test and 13 wickets in the three Tests in England. He captained India in both the 1975 and 1979 World Cup competitions. He also led India in a four-Test series against England in 1979. In domestic cricket, he led South Zone and Tamil Nadu for over a decade.[2]"
Venkat retired from first-class cricket in 1985. He became a cricket administrator and managed the Indian Test side. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2003.[2]
"Venkat made his international umpiring debut in the One Day International between India and England at Jaipur on 18 January 1993. He made his Test umpiring debut in the same month, with the match between India and England at Kolkata. He gained a place on the inaugural International Umpire Panel when it was formed in 1994, and was selected by the International Cricket Council on a regular basis to umpire in Test matches away from home as the neutral umpire. In 2002 the ICC created an Elite Panel of the top eight umpires, who were employed on a full-time basis and would cover all Test match officiating. Venkat was duly included in the inaugural Elite Panel, of which he remained a member until his retirement in January 2004. That he remained among the top echelon of international umpires for the entirety of his career is testament to his umpiring ability."
"The highlights of his umpiring career include six Ashes Tests and appointments to three World Cups in 1996, 1999 and 2003. In both the 1996 and 1999 tournaments he was appointed to stand in a semi-final, and was the third umpire of the 1999 World Cup final between Australia and Pakistan at Lord's. In total he officiated on-field in 73 Test matches and 52 One-day Internationals during his career.[2]"
"First Last Total Tests  India v  England at Kolkata, January 1993  South Africa v  West Indies at Centurion, January 2004 73 ODIs  India v  England at Jaipur, January 1993  Australia v  New Zealand at Faridabad, October 2003 52"
Venkataraghavan is an engineering graduate from Madras University.[5][6]
"Deep Dasgupta Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style - Career statistics Competition Tests ODIs Matches 8 5 Runs scored 344 51 Batting average 28.66 17.00 100s/50s 1/2 -/- Top score 100 24* Balls bowled - - Wickets - - Bowling average - - 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - n/a Best bowling - - Catches/stumpings 13/- 2/1 Source: , 4 February 2006"
"Deep Dasgupta  pronunciation  (born 7 June 1977, Kolkata, Bengal) is an Indian cricketer who played in 8 Tests and 5 ODIs from 2001 to 2002 as the national wicketkeeper. He was later replaced by Ajay Ratra."
"An aggressive opening batsman, Dasgupta played for Bengal, where he took over as captain following the resignation of Sourav Ganguly, and was the reserve wicketkeeper for East Zone behind the national wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni."
"He later joined the renegade Indian Cricket League, where he played for the Royal Bengal Tigers."
Kenia Jayantilal Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm offbreak International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 91 Runs scored 5 4687 Batting average 5.00 36.33 100s/50s -/- 8/- Top score 5 197 Balls bowled - 606 Wickets - 6 Bowling average - 51.83 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 3/47 Catches/stumpings -/- 66/- Source:
"Hirji Kenia Jayantilal  pronunciation  (born 13 January 1948, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh) is a former Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1971."
Madhav Apte Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm bowler International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 7 67 Runs scored 542 3336 Batting average 49.27 38.79 100s/50s 1/3 6/- Top score 163* 165* Balls bowled 6 120 Wickets - 4 Bowling average - 24.25 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 1/6 Catches/stumpings 2/- 27/- Source: Cricinfo
"Madhavrao Laxmanrao Apte  pronunciation  (born 5 October 1932, Bombay) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 7 Tests from 1952 to 1953. His brother Arvind Apte was also a cricketer.[1]"
Subrata Guha Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm medium-fast International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 4 85 Runs scored 17 1067 Batting average 3.39 12.70 100s/50s -/- -/- Top score 6 75 Balls bowled 674 6068 Wickets 3 299 Bowling average 103.66 20.29 5 wickets in innings - 18 10 wickets in match - 4 Best bowling 2/55 7/18 Catches/stumpings 2/- 45/- Source:
"Subrata Guha  pronunciation  (31 January 1946, Kolkata, Bengal – 5 November 2003, Mumbai) was an Indian cricketer who played in four Tests from 1967 to 1969."
"Ramakant Desai Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat (RHB) Bowling style Right-arm fast-medium International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 28 150 Runs scored 418 2,384 Batting average 13.48 18.19 100s/50s 0/1 1/9 Top score 85 107 Balls bowled 5,597 23,906 Wickets 74 468 Bowling average 37.31 24.10 5 wickets in innings 2 22 10 wickets in match - 2 Best bowling 6/56 7/46 Catches/stumpings 9 50 Source:"
"Ramakant Bhikaji Desai  pronunciation  (20 June 1939, Bombay – 28 April 1998, Mumbai) represented India in Test cricket as a fast bowler."
"Ramakant Desai was an Indian fast bowler, who stood less than 5 feet 6 inches in height. His size earned him the nickname 'Tiny'. He made his Test debut against West Indies in 1958-59 took 4/169 in 49 overs. He troubled the batsmen with bouncers, which was unusual for an Indian bowler at the time."
"He toured England in 1959, West Indies in 1961-62 and Australia and New Zealand in 1967-68. Against Pakistan in 1960-61, he took 21 wickets in the series. At Bombay, he scored a quick 85 batting at No.10, an Indian record, and added a record 149 for the ninth wicket with Nana Joshi. His best bowling performance in Tests was 6 for 56 against New Zealand at Bombay in 1964-65. At Dunedin in 1967-68 his jaw was fractured by a ball from Dick Motz, despite which he added 57 runs for the last wicket with Bishen Bedi."
"In his first year in the Ranji Trophy, he took 50 wickets in 7 matches at an average of 11.10.[1] It is still a record for Bombay. It included a performance of 5 for 10 and 6 for 28 against Saurashtra.[2] In the Ranji Trophy final in 1960-61 he took 7 for 46 and 4 for 74 in Bombay's victory over Rajasthan.[3] Two years later, also against Rajasthan in the final, he scored his only first-class century, 107, in another victory.[4] In his 11 years in the Bombay team (1958-59 to 1968-69), he never finished in a losing side."
"As the only bowler of pace in the Indian team, he was perennially overworked. When Desai retired from regular first-class cricket after the 1968-69 season, when still only 29 years old, P.N. Sundaresan wrote that he ""bowled his heart out on the dead pitches in India ... A more judicious use of his talent both in the Ranji Trophy and other matches could have preserved him as a penetrating bowler for a longer period.""[5]"
Desai was the chairman of selectors from 1996-97. He resigned the post a month before his death. He died four days after being admitted in a hospital for a cardiac arrest.
Ramesh Saxena Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Legbreak International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 149 Runs scored 25 8155 Batting average 12.50 40.37 100s/50s -/- 17/42 Top score 16 202* Balls bowled 12 1716 Wickets - 33 Bowling average - 28.27 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 4/24 Catches/stumpings -/- 65/- Source:
"Ramesh Chand Saxena  pronunciation  (20 September 1944, Delhi – 16 August 2011, Jamshedpur)[1] was an Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1967."
First-class career
"Saxena made his first-class debut for Delhi vs Southern Punjab as a 16-year-old in the 1960/61 season, hitting an unbeaten 113 in his first first-class innings."
Test career
"Saxena made his Test debut for India in a match against England in Leeds in 1967. England batted first and declared on 550/4, with Geoffrey Boycott scoring an unbeaten 246 and Saxena bowling 2 wicketless overs. He then opened with Farokh Engineer in India's innings, but was out for just 9 as India were bowled out for 164 and forced to follow on. India put in an improved performance in the second innings, posting 510, but Saxena, batting at 7, only contributed 16. England then knocked off the required runs to seal a 6 wicket victory."
"Gopal Sharma Personal information Born (1960-08-03) 3 August 1960 Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm offbreak Career statistics Competition Tests ODIs Matches 5 11 Runs scored 11 11 Batting average 3.66 5.50 100s/50s -/- -/- Top score 10* 7 Balls bowled 1307 486 Wickets 10 10 Bowling average 41.79 36.10 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - n/a Best bowling 4/88 3/29 Catches/stumpings 2/- 2/- Source: , 4 February 2006"
"Gopal Sharma  pronunciation  (born 3 August 1960, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 5 Tests and 11 ODIs from 1985 to 1990. He was an off-spinner but was overshadowed by the spinners of the day for a place in the international squad - Laxman Sivaramakrishnan, Maninder Singh, Arshad Ayub, Shivlal Yadav, Ravi Shastri and Narendra Hirwani.[1]"
He was the first person from Uttar Pradesh to represent India post-independence. He was a member of the India Selection Committee representing the Central Zone in 2004/05 season.[2]
Arvind Apte Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm medium International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 58 Runs scored 15 2782 Batting average 7.50 33.51 100s/50s -/- 6/- Top score 8 165 Balls bowled - 102 Wickets - 2 Bowling average - 38.00 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 1/21 Catches/stumpings -/- 14/1 Source: Cricinfo
Arvindrao Laxmanrao Apte  pronunciation  (24 October 1934 – 5 August 2014)[1] was an Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1959 against England at Leeds. His brother Madhav Apte was also a cricketer.[2]
Hiralal Gaekwad Cricket information Batting style Left-hand bat Bowling style Slow left-arm orthodox Left-arm medium pace International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 101 Runs scored 22 2487 Batting average 11.00 19.42 100s/50s -/- 2/10 Top score 14 164 Balls bowled 222 26006 Wickets - 375 Bowling average - 23.62 5 wickets in innings - 21 10 wickets in match - 5 Best bowling - 7/67 Catches/stumpings -/- 43/- Source:
"Hiralal Ghasulal Gaekwad  pronunciation  (29 August 1923, Nagpur, Maharashtra - 2 January 2003, Bagdogra, Assam) was an Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1952."
"Raju Kulkarni Personal information Full name Rajiv Ramesh Kulkarni Born (1962-09-25) 25 September 1962 Bombay (now Mumbai), Maharashtra, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm fast-medium Role Bowler International information National side India Test debut (cap 175) 15 October 1986 v Australia Last Test 11 February 1987 v Pakistan ODI debut (cap 46) 17 December 1983 v West Indies Last ODI 26 March 1987 v Pakistan Career statistics Competition Tests ODIs Matches 3 10 Runs scored 2 33 Batting average 1.00 16.50 100s/50s -/- -/- Top score 2 15 Balls bowled 366 444 Wickets 5 10 Bowling average 45.39 34.50 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - n/a Best bowling 3/85 3/42 Catches/stumpings 1/- 2/- Source: , 6 March 2006"
"Rajiv Ramesh Kulkarni  pronunciation  (born 25 September 1962, Bombay, Maharashtra) is a former Indian cricketer. He played domestic cricket for Bombay as a pace and swing bowler. He took 8 for 111 in the semi-final of the Ranji Trophy in 1982-83, and played in his first One Day International in December 1983."
"He was called in shortly before the Test against Australia in his home town of Bombay in October 1986, where he made his Test debut. He played two more Tests against Pakistan in February 1987, but his Test career ended after these 3 matches. He played the last of his 10 ODIs, also against Pakistan, in March 1987. He was selected for the Indian Asia Cup squad in 1990 Asia Cup but did not play a match."
"He retired from first-class cricket in 1992, and has a sports equipment business."
"Baloo Gupte Personal information Full name Balkrishna Pandharinath Gupte Born (1934-08-30)30 August 1934 Bombay (now Mumbai), Maharashtra, India Died 5 July 2005(2005-07-05) (aged 70) Mumbai, India Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Legbreak googly Relations Subhash Gupte (Brother) International information National side Indian Test debut (cap 100) 13 January 1961 v Pakistan Last Test 5 March 1965 v New Zealand Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 3 99 Runs scored 28 587 Batting average 28.00 9.17 100s/50s -/- -/- Top score 17* 35 Balls bowled 678 10379 Wickets 3 417 Bowling average 116.33 24.88 5 wickets in innings - 26 10 wickets in match - 5 Best bowling 1/54 9/55 Catches/stumpings -/- 21/- Source:"
Balkrishna Pandharinath 'Baloo' Gupte  pronunciation  (30 August 1934 – 5 July 2005) was an Indian cricketer. He was a leg-spinner.
"Gupte was born in Bombay, India. He made his debut under Nari Contractor in 1960-61 against Pakistan led by Fazal Mahmood at the Corporation Stadium in Madras (now Chennai). He played three Tests for India between 1960–61 and 1964-65. His first class career spanned 1953-53 to 1967-68 playing for Bombay, Bengal and Railways. He died in Bombay on 5 July 2005, after a lengthy illness, aged 70."
"He was the younger brother of Subhash Gupte, one of the finest spinners to play for India."
Baloo Gupte
"Nirode Chowdhury Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right arm off-break, Right-arm medium pace International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 58 Runs scored 3 419 Batting average 3.00 7.22 100s/50s 0/0 0/ Top score 3* 30* Balls bowled 516 8,993 Wickets 1 200 Bowling average 205 25.14 5 wickets in innings - 10 10 wickets in match - 2 Best bowling 1/130 7/79 Catches/stumpings 0/- 22/- Source: CricketArchive"
"Nirode Ranjan ""Putu"" Chowdhury  pronunciation  (23 May 1923, Jamshedpur, India - 14 December 1979, Durgapur, India) was an Indian cricketer."
"A medium pace bowler, Putu Chowdhury had an outstanding start to his career when he took 11, 9 and 10 wickets in his first three matches. In 1944-45, he took a hat-trick against Bengal Governor's XI in Eden Gardens which included the wickets of Vinoo Mankad, Mushtaq Ali and Lala Amarnath. He started his career with Bihar, moved to Bengal where he played most of his cricket and returned to Bihar towards the end of his career."
"He made his Test debut against the West Indies at Madras in 1948/49. He took only one wicket but brilliantly ran out Everton Weekes who had scored hundreds in his five previous innings, and had reached 90 here . Weekes cut Vinoo Mankad to gully, started to run and was sent back. Chowdhury sent the throw to wicket keeper Probir Sen who ran Weekes out."
"He was allotted a benefit match which could not be played. He was a coach in the Durgapur steel plant in the later years. His bowling average of 205.00 is the second worst for India, after Sunil Gavaskar's 206.00.[1]"
"Madhusudan Rege Personal information Born (1924-03-18)18 March 1924 Panvel, Maharashtra Died 16 December 2013(2013-12-16) (aged 89) Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm offbreak International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 39 Runs scored 15 2348 Batting average 7.50 37.26 100s/50s -/- 6/12 Top score 15 164 Balls bowled - 3159 Wickets - 33 Bowling average - 42.96 5 wickets in innings - 1 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - 5/23 Catches/stumpings 1/- 24/- Source: , 30 November 2013"
"Madhusudan Ramachandra Rege  pronunciation  (18 March 1924 – 16 December 2013) was a former Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1949, against West Indies.[1]"
"He played for Maharashtra from 1944-45 to 1954-55, captaining the team from 1951-52 to 1954-55. His highest score was 164, against Gujarat in the Ranji Trophy in 1953-54.[2]"
"For Maharashtra against the MCC in 1951-52, he opened the batting and scored 133 out of the team's total of 249, then became the first Indian player to be called for throwing.[3]"
"Khanderao Moreshwar 'Khandu' Rangnekar  pronunciation  (27 June 1917, in Bombay – 11 October 1984, in Thane, Maharashtra) was an Indian Test cricketer. Rangnekar was an attacking batsman who was considered the best Indian left-hander of his time. He was a good fielder at cover-point and could field with either hand."
Rangnekar started his first class career in the Bombay Pentangular and scored a hundred in his first appearance in the Ranji Trophy. He played in three Test matches against Australia in 1947-48 without much success.
"Rangnekar was educated in the Byramji Jeejeebhoy School, St. Xaviers, and did his B.A. in Elphinstone college. Between 1939 and 1945 he was one of the best badminton players in India, winning the doubles title at the Indian National Badminton Championship in 1945.[1] He won Western India doubles in 1940, 1942, and 1944 and mixed doubles in 1940. He was the Thane municipality president in the 1960s."
"He was the vice president of BCCI from 1962-63 to 1969-70, president of Bombay Cricket Association in 1962-63 and the vice president between 1962–63 and 1978-79."
He worked in the Indian Customs in Bombay and ran a textile store business. He died of throat cancer.
"Janardan Navle Personal information Full name Janardan Gyanoba Navle Born (1902-12-07)7 December 1902 Fulgaon, Maharashtra, India Died 7 September 1979(1979-09-07) (aged 76) Pune, Maharashtra, India Batting style Right-hand bat (RHB) Bowling style n/a Role Wicket-keeper International information National side Indian Test debut (cap 6) 25 June 1932 v England Last Test 15 December 1933 v England Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 65 Runs scored 42 1,976 Batting average 13.00 19.18 100s/50s 0/0 0/9 Top score 13 96 Balls bowled - - Wickets - - Bowling average - - 5 wickets in innings - 0 10 wickets in match - 0 Best bowling - - Catches/stumpings 1 100/36 Source:"
"Janardan Gyanoba Navle  pronunciation  (pronounced Nuw-lay) (7 December 1902, Fulgaon, Maharashtra, India – 7 September 1979, Poona, now Pune) was an early Indian Test cricketer."
The 1960 Indian Test Cricket team that toured England. Janardan Navle is seen standing last in the first row of the team Captained by Maharaja of Porbandar.
"Navle faced the historic first delivery of India's first Test innings in 1932.[1] He opened in both innings at Lord's in 1932 and also kept wickets. A small man, Wisden called him ""a first-rate wicket-keeper, very quick in all that he did"". He played for Indians against Arthur Gilligan's MCC team in 1926-27 and Jack Ryder's Australians nine years later. For many years he kept wickets for Hindus in the Bombay Quadrangular and Pentangular tournaments. He made his debut for Hindus at the age of 16."
In his later life he worked as a security guard in a sugar mill and lived in a humble two room flat in Poona. He had his schooling at the Bhave School in Poona.
"Amir Elahi Personal information Full name Amir Elahi Born (1908-09-01)1 September 1908 Lahore, Punjab, British India Died 28 December 1980(1980-12-28) (aged 72) Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan Batting style Right-handed batsman Bowling style Right-arm Leg break International information National side India (1947) Pakistan (1952) Test debut (cap 40/1) 12 December 1947  India v Australia Last Test 12 December 1952  Pakistan v India Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 6 125 Runs scored 82 2562 Batting average 10.25 16.85 100s/50s -/- -/3 Top score 47 96 Balls bowled 400 24822 Wickets 7 513 Bowling average 35.42 25.77 5 wickets in innings – 30 10 wickets in match – 6 Best bowling 4/134 8/94 Catches/stumpings -/- 67/- Source: Cricinfo.com"
"Amir Elahi (Urdu: عامر الہی)  pronunciation  (1 September 1908 – 28 December 1980) was one of the fourteen cricketers who have played Test cricket for more than one country.[1] Born in Lahore, he played one Test for India. After Pakistan acquired Test match status in 1952-3, he played 5 Tests for Pakistan as a leg break googly bowler with modest success. He also had the distinction of being cap #1 amongst Pakistan Test cricketers"
"He died in Karachi, Pakistan on 28 December 1980."
"Shah Nyalchand  pronunciation  (14 September 1915, Dhrangadhra, Gujarat – 1 January 1997, Junagadh, Gujarat) was an Indian Test cricketer."
"Nyalchand was a left arm medium pace bowler who was particularly effective on matting wickets. His only Test match was against Pakistan at Lucknow in 1952/53, which was one of only two occasions that a matting wicket was used for a Test in India. He returned figures of 3 for 97. Frank Worrell once described Nyalchand as the 'king of matting wickets'."
"Nyalchand played 24 seasons of Ranji Trophy, half of which were for Saurashtra. He captained Saurashtra for three seasons. His most successful season was 1961/62 when he took 27 wickets, including a split hat-trick against Maharashtra. During this purple patch, he took ten wickets in three consecutive matches across two seasons. Apart from the Test, he appeared for a few times for zonal sides against visiting teams. He toured East Africa with the Sundar Cricket Club of Bombay in 1957."
"Vijay Rajindernath Personal information Born (1928-01-07)7 January 1928 Amritsar, India Died 22 November 1989(1989-11-22) (aged 61) Chennai, India Batting style Right-hand bat (RHB) Bowling style - International information National side India Test debut 13 November 1952 v Pakistan Last Test 13 November 1952 v Pakistan Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 28 Runs scored 0 844 Batting average - 22.21 100s/50s 0/0 1/3 Top score - 136 Balls bowled - - Wickets - - Bowling average - - 5 wickets in innings - 0 10 wickets in match - 0 Best bowling - - Catches/stumpings 0/4 35/24 Source: ESPNcricinfo, 10 January 2013"
"Vijay Rajindernath  pronunciation  (born 7 January 1928 in Amritsar, died 22 November 1989 in Chennai) was an Indian cricketer."
"Rajindernath was one of the four wicket keepers that India tried out against Pakistan in the 1952-1953 series. He played in the Test at Bombay which India won losing only four wickets. Rajindernath did not bat but effected four stumpings, three of which were off Subhash Gupte. He still holds the Test match record for the most stumpings in a complete career without a catch.[1] He was replaced by Ebrahim Maka for the next Test. He also played in three 'Tests' against a Commonwealth XI in 1950-1951."
One Test Wonder
""
Vijay Rajindernath
Vaman Kumar Cricket information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Legbreak googly International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 129 Runs scored 6 673 Batting average 3.00 7.64 100s/50s -/- -/- Top score 6 31 Balls bowled 605 30082 Wickets 7 599 Bowling average 28.85 19.98 5 wickets in innings 1 36 10 wickets in match - 8 Best bowling 5/64 9/76 Catches/stumpings 2/- 40/- Source:
"Vaman Viswanath Kumar  pronunciation , often known as V. V. Kumar (born 22 June 1935, Chennai) is a former Indian cricketer who played in two Tests in 1961. Born in a Brahmin Iyer family, on his debut he took five wickets in the first innings against Pakistan in Delhi in 1961.[1]"
Architecture and use
Benham Valence
"Benham Park is a mansion (on the site of Benham Valence Manor) in the English ceremonial county of Berkshire and district of West Berkshire. It is 2 miles (3.2 km) west of Newbury within 500m of a junction of the A34 trunk road Newbury by-pass outside the town side, in the Marsh Benham locality of Speen, a village within and outside of the Newbury by-pass. Of grades I to II the house is grade II* listed (the mid category) and park is at grade II."
"The manor of Benham Valence was granted by Elizabeth I to Giovanni Battista Castiglione, her Italian tutor, in 1570. He is buried at St Mary's Church in Speen."
"William, 6th earl of Craven, holding the Benham castle plan (Thomas Beach, 1778)"
"The current house was built by Henry Holland and Capability Brown for William, 6th Baron Craven in 1775. It was later the home of his widow, Elizabeth Craven and her second husband, Charles Alexander, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach. The building is Grade II* listed,[1] and one of its pairs of ornate gate piers is Grade I listed.[2][3] The park itself is at Grade II and has a lake with mill beside the house and aqueducts or artificial drains leading across marshy wetland to the River Kennet to the far south.[4]"
"The building was converted into offices in 1983[5] by the IT company Norsk Data, who used it as their headquarters for European operations (outside Norway), until the company's dissolution in 1992. Then it was home to 2e2, an ICT lifecycle services provider, until 2012 when it dissolved.[6] Also within the grounds were two office buildings built in the 1980s and these housed other companies such as mobile data solution provider CognitoIQ,[7] Exony and Idox, all of which have now moved to other premises as the phases comprising the office block were demolished."
Gates to Benham Valence
Media related to Benham Park at Wikimedia Commons
"Bulandi Bagh Bulandi Bagh is located in the northwestern corner, just above the railroad, of the 1895 excavation plan at Pataliputra (marked ""Bulandhi Bagh"" and ""I""). Shown within India Show map of India Shown within India Show map of Bihar Location Patna district, Bihar, India. Coordinates 25°36′07″N 85°10′48″E﻿ / ﻿25.60194°N 85.18000°E﻿ / 25.60194; 85.18000Coordinates: 25°36′07″N 85°10′48″E﻿ / ﻿25.60194°N 85.18000°E﻿ / 25.60194; 85.18000 Type Settlement"
"Bulandi Bagh is an area of the archaeological site of Pataliputra (north of railway station of the modern city of Patna). It is mainly known for the discovery of the monumental Pataliputra capital, unearthed in 1895 by L.A. Waddell, as well as the excavation of wooden palissades thought to have formed the protective walls of ancient Pataliputra. Bulandhi Bagh is thougt to have been part of the Maurya dynasty royal palace in Pataliputra.[1]"
"Other excavations in 1912-1913 took place in the area of Bulandi Bagh under American archaeologist David Brainard Spooner, working for the British Archaeological Survey of India. Spooner devoted most of his resources to the site of Kumrahar to the south, but in Bulandi Bagh, he found a wooden palissade, punch-marked coins and terracotta figures (head of smiling boy and dancing figure), and various beads and seals.[2]"
"In 1926-1927, J .A. Page and M. Ghosh for the Archaeological Survey of India excavated the area again leading to the discovery of large wooden palissades (137 meters were excavated), also thought to be of the Mauryan period. It is thought that it is the palissade seen by Megasthenes during his visit to Pataliputra.[3] Strabo in his Geographia, quoting Megasthenes:"
"Agnimitra (Sanskrit: अग्निमित्रः) (r. 149 – 141 BCE) was the second king of the Shunga dynasty of northern India. He succeeded his father, Pushyamitra Shunga, in 149 BCE. The Vayu Purana and the Brahmanda Purana have assigned 8 years as the length of his reign.[1]"
Ancestry and early life
"According to Kālidāsa in the Mālavikāgnimitram (Act IV, Verse 14), Agnimitra belonged to the Baimbika family (Baimbika-kula), while the Puranas mention him as a Shunga.[2] The Mālavikāgnimitra, (Act V, Verse 20) informs us that he was the Goptri (viceroy) at Vidisha during his father's reign.[3]"
"The Mālavikāgnimitra gives us the names of three of his queens: Dharini (the mother of the fourth Shunga King, Vasumitra), Iravati, and Malavika (a princess of Vidarbha)."
War with Vidarbha
"According to the Mālavikāgnimitra (Act I, Verse 6-8 and Act V, Verse 13-14), a war broke out between the Shungas and neighboring Vidarbha kingdom during Agnimitra's reign. Before the rise of the Shungas, Vidarbha had become independent from the Mauryan Empire when a former Mauryan sachiva (minister) put his brother-in-law Yajnasena on the throne. Madhavasena, a cousin of Yajnasena, sought help from Agnimitra in overthrowing his cousin, but was captured while crossing the border of Vidarbha and imprisoned.[1]"
"Agnimitra demanded the release of Madhavasena, and in return Yajnasena demanded the release of the former Mauryan minister, who had been captured earlier by Agnimitra. Instead, Agnimitra sent his army to invade Vidarbha. Yajnasena was defeated and forced to divide Vidarbha with Madhavasena, and both cousins recognized the suzerainty of the Shunga rulers.[1][4]"
Succession
"Agnimitra's reign ended in 141 BCE and he was succeeded either by his son Vasujyeshtha (according to the Matsya Purana) or Sujyeshtha (according to the Vayu, Brahamānda, Vishnu, and Bhagavata Puranas).[1]"
"Jahangir Khan Personal information Full name Mohammad Jahangir Khan Born (1910-02-01)1 February 1910 Basti Ghuzan, Jullundur, Punjab, British India (now India) Died 23 July 1988(1988-07-23) (aged 78) Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan Batting style Right-hand batsman Bowling style Right-arm fast medium Relations Majid Khan (son) Asad Jahangir Khan (son) Bazid Khan (grandson) International information National side India Test debut (cap 3) 25 June 1932 v England Last Test 15 August 1936 v England Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 4 111 Runs scored 39 3,327 Batting average 5.57 22.32 100s/50s 0/0 4/7 Top score 13 133 Balls bowled 606 8,314 Wickets 4 328 Bowling average 63.75 25.34 5 wickets in innings – 12 10 wickets in match – 2 Best bowling 4/60 8/33 Catches/stumpings 4 82 Source: CricketArchive, 10 March 2013"
"Dr. Mohammad Jahangir Khan  pronunciation  (1 February 1910, Jalandhar, Punjab – 23 July 1988, Lahore) played cricket for India during British rule and after independence served as a cricket administrator in Pakistan. He graduated from Islamia College, Lahore."
"Jahangir was a big man who stood six feet and bowled medium pace. He came from a famous cricketing family that produced Pakistan captains Baqa Jilani, Imran Khan, Javed Burki and Majid Khan, the last being his son. Majid's son Bazid Khan also represented Pakistan for the first time in 2005, making the family the second, after the Headleys to have three consecutive generations of Test cricketers.Baqa Jilani is brother in law of Dr. Mohammad Jahangir Khan also represented India in Test Cricket."
"Jahangir scored 108 on his first-class debut and took seven wickets in the second innings of the match. He represented India in her first ever Test against England at Lord's in 1932. After the tour, he stayed back in England and took a doctorate from Cambridge University. He passed the final Bar from Middle Temple. In that time he was Cambridge blue in cricket for four years. He also made two appearances in Gentlemen v Players matches. In 1935 playing for Indian Gymkhana, he also scored 1380 runs in two months, at an average of 70."
"When India toured England in 1936 he joined the team and appeared in all three Tests. His best bowling during his time at Cambridge was a 7 for 58 against the champion county Yorkshire. Back in India, he played in the Bombay Pentangular in 1939."
"While playing against Marylebone Cricket Club at Lord's in 1936, he bowled a ball to Tom Pearce that struck and killed an airborne sparrow. The bird was subsequently stuffed and mounted on the match ball which is currently exhibited in the MCC Museum at Lord's.[1] Jahangir was to captain India in a tour of Ceylon in 1940–41 that was cancelled due to the war.[2]"
"Jahangir was a selector between 1939–40 and 1941–42. After moving to Pakistan after 1947, he served a selector in Pakistan and managed the team that toured India in 1960–1961. He was a college principal and then served as the Director of Education in Pakistan before retiring. When Jalandhar hosted its first Test match in 1983, Jahangir was specially invited to attend the match. In his younger days, he was also a champion javelin thrower of India. He represented India in AAA in 1932 and British Empire Games 1934 in London."
Jahangir Khan (cricketer)
"Nazir Ali Personal information Full name Syed Nazir Ali Born (1906-06-08)8 June 1906 Jullundur (now Jalandhar), Punjab, India Died 18 February 1975(1975-02-18) (aged 68) Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan Batting style Right-hand bat (RHB) Bowling style Right-arm fast medium Relations Wazir Ali (brother) Khalid Ali (nephew) International information National side Indian Test debut (cap 8) 25 June 1932 v England Last Test 10 February 1934 v England Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 75 Runs scored 30 3,440 Batting average 7.50 30.17 100s/50s 0/0 7/15 Top score 13 197 Balls bowled 138 8,360 Wickets 4 158 Bowling average 20.75 25.49 5 wickets in innings - 6 10 wickets in match - 0 Best bowling 4/83 7/93 Catches/stumpings 0 48 Source:"
"Syed Nazir Ali  pronunciation  (8 June 1906, Jullundur, Punjab – 18 February 1975, Lahore) was a prominent player from the early days of Indian cricket."
"Nazir Ali was an attacking right-handed batsman, a fast-medium bowler and a good fielder. He was younger brother of Wazir Ali."
"When MCC toured India in 1926/27, he impressed the MCC captain Arthur Gilligan who suggested that Nazir should qualify for Sussex. Some months later Nazir Ali wakened up the secretary of Sussex at 1 am asking for hospitality or to be sent where he could find it. ."
"He played in India's first Test match in 1932 scoring 13 and 6 and picked up an injury while fielding during England's second innings. He scored 1020 runs and took 23 wickets in the tour. Nazir's most memorable feat was perhaps the 52, with five fours and three sixes, that he scored against Yorkshire out of India's 66 allout . No other batsmen scored more than three. This is still the lowest first class total to include an individual fifty."
"Nazir played one other Test, against England at Madras in 1933/34. After 1947, he settled in Pakistan and was an administrator."
"Phiroze Palia Cricket information Batting style Left-hand bat Bowling style Slow left arm orthodox International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 100 Runs scored 29 4,536 Batting average 9.67 32.40 100s/50s 0/0 8/19 Top score 16 216 Balls bowled 42 13,565 Wickets 0 208 Bowling average - 24.06 5 wickets in innings - 7 10 wickets in match - 0 Best bowling - 7/109 Catches/stumpings 0 40 Source:"
"Phiroze Edulji Palia  pronunciation  (born on 5 September 1910, Bombay - died on 9 September 1981, Bangalore) was an early Indian cricketer. His first name is sometimes written as Phiroz."
"Palia represented Indian in his first ever Test match at Lord's in 1932. He suffered an injury while fielding. In the second innings he was hardly in a position to walk, but batted as the last man. He again toured England in 1936 and played at Lord's."
He represented United Provinces in Ranji Trophy and Parsis in the Bombay Pentangular. His highest score was 216 made against Maharashtra in 1939-40 in a losing cause. He was an attractive left hand batsman and a useful spinner.
"For a time, Palia was in the service of the Maharajkumar of Vizianagram. Later in life, he established a timber and furniture business in Bangalore. His father was a prominent figure in the business circles in Bombay in the 1920s."
Phiroze Palia
Ladha Ramji Personal information Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm fast Relations Amar Singh (brother) International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 27 Runs scored 1 325 Batting average 0.50 8.55 100s/50s -/- -/1 Top score 1 70 Balls bowled 138 4741 Wickets - 125 Bowling average - 17.37 5 wickets in innings - 5 10 wickets in match - 3 Best bowling - 8/14 Catches/stumpings 1/- 25/- Source:
"Ramji Ladha Nakum  pronunciation  (10 February 1900, Pidhar, Gujarat – 20 December 1948, Rajkot, Gujarat) was an Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1933."
Ramji was a fast bowler. In a first-class match in 1931-32 he took 8 for 14 and 4 for 32 for Freelooters against Nizam's State Railway A. His brother Amar Singh took the other eight wickets.[1]
"Sorabji Colah Personal information Full name Sorabji Hormasji Munchersha Colah Born (1902-09-22)22 September 1902 Bombay (now Mumbai), Maharashtra, India Died 11 September 1950(1950-09-11) (aged 47) Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India Batting style Right hand bat Bowling style Right arm medium pace Role Batsman International information National side Indian Test debut (cap 2) 25 June 1932 v England Last Test 15 December 1933 v England Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 75 Runs scored 69 3,578 Batting average 17.25 29.08 100s/50s 0/0 6/14 Top score 31 185* Balls bowled - 444 Wickets - 6 Bowling average - 46.50 5 wickets in innings - 0 10 wickets in match - 0 Best bowling - 2/14 Catches/stumpings 2 51 Source:"
"Sorabji Hormasji Munchersha Colah  pronunciation  (born 22 September 1902 in Bombay – died 11 September 1950 in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India) was an early Indian cricketer."
"Born and educated in Bombay, Colah showed promise at a young age. He was a good strokeplay and brilliant fielder. He was one of the players who appeared for India in his first Test in 1932. He made 1069 runs in the tour (900 in first class matches). During the tour, he did not have a good relationship with the captain CK Nayudu and it is recorded that on the way back, Colah threatened to throw Nayudu overboard. He also played in the Bombay Test when England toured India the next year. His other important appearances were against the Australian Services XI in 1935 and Lord Tennyson's team in 1937."
He represented Western India States and Nawanagar in Ranji Trophy and was the captain of the Parsis in the Bombay Pentangular.
Ajit Manohar Pai Cricket information Batting style Left-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm fast-medium International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 1 35 Runs scored 10 872 Batting average 5.00 24.22 100s/50s –/– –/5 Top score 9 91 Balls bowled 114 4924 Wickets 2 85 Bowling average 15.50 25.21 5 wickets in innings – 4 10 wickets in match – 1 Best bowling 2/29 7/42 Catches/stumpings –/– 39/– Source:
"Ajit Manohar Pai  pronunciation  (born 28 April 1945, Bombay) is a former Indian cricketer who played in one Test in 1969."
"An opening bowler and useful lower-order batsman, Pai made his debut for Bombay in the Ranji Trophy in the 1968-69 season. After taking 11 wickets in his first three first-class matches he was selected to represent West Zone in the Duleep Trophy. He helped each team to the championship and finished the season with 129 runs at an average of 25.80[1] and 23 wickets at 23.21.[2]"
"In September 1969 he took 7 for 42 for West Zone against Central Zone in the Duleep Trophy[3] and was selected to open the bowling for India in the First Test against New Zealand later that month. He took two wickets and India won,[4] but for the Second Test the selectors decided to use the all-rounders Rusi Surti and Syed Abid Ali to open the bowling and strengthened the spin attack with Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan. Again he helped West Zone and Bombay win their respective championships in 1969-70."
"He did not play any further matches in the Duleep Trophy, but in 1970-71 he had an outstanding match for Bombay against Saurashtra in the Ranji Trophy. Batting at number seven, he made 91 out of a Bombay total of 265, then took 5 for 22 and 6 for 30 to take Bombay to victory by an innings and 82 runs.[5] Once again he played in the Bombay side that won the Ranji Trophy."
Ebrahim Maka Cricket information Batting style Right-handed Role Wicket-keeper International information National side Indian Career statistics Competition Tests First-class Matches 2 34 Runs scored 2 607 Batting average - 15.56 100s/50s 0/0 0/2 Top score 2* 66* Balls bowled - - Wickets - - Bowling average - - 5 wickets in innings - - 10 wickets in match - - Best bowling - - Catches/stumpings 2/1 58/27 Source:
 Ebrahim Suleman Maka  (5 March 1922 – 7 November 1994) was a wicket-keeper who represented India in Test cricket. He was born in Daman.
"Maka appeared at a time when the Indian cricket had many wicket-keepers of nearly the same class. His first appearance was in the fourth Test against Pakistan in 1952-53. The selectors had already tried out Probir Sen, Nana Joshi and Vijay Rajindernath as wicket-keepers in the previous Tests and Maka himself was replaced for the fifth Test."
His other Test was in West Indies in the same season when he was understudy to Joshi. While batting he had two bones of his right hand broken by fast bowler Frank King. Vijay Manjrekar substituted for him and effected a stumping.
Maka came from a poor family. His father was a cargo ship captain who earned Rs.150 a month and had to take care of a family of ten which lived near Crawford Market in Bombay.
"The Shipra, also known as the Kshipra, is a river in Madhya Pradesh state of central India. The river rises in the ujjaini situated in Indore district, and flows north across the Malwa Plateau to join the Chambal River at the MP-Rajasthan boundary in Mandsaur district. It is one of the sacred rivers in Hinduism. The holy city of Ujjain is situated on its east bank. Every 12 years, the Sinhastha fair (Kumbh Mela) takes place on the city's elaborate riverside ghats, as do yearly celebrations of the river goddess Kshipra. There are hundreds of Hindu shrines along the banks of the river Shipra."
Shipra is a perennial river. Earlier there used to be plenty of water in the river. Now the river stops flowing a couple of months after the monsoon.
Caves at Barabar Hill
Barabar Caves Coordinates 25°00′18″N 85°03′47″E﻿ / ﻿25.005°N 85.063°E﻿ / 25.005; 85.063Coordinates: 25°00′18″N 85°03′47″E﻿ / ﻿25.005°N 85.063°E﻿ / 25.005; 85.063
"The Barabar Caves are the oldest surviving rock-cut caves in India,[1] mostly dating from the Maurya Empire (322–185 BCE), some with Ashokan inscriptions, located in Makhdumpur Block of Jehanabad district, Bihar, India, 24 km north of Gaya."
"These caves are situated in the twin hills of Barabar (four caves) and Nagarjuni (three caves) – caves of the 1.6 km distant Nagarjuni Hill sometimes are singled out as Nagarjuni Caves. These rock-cut chambers date back to the 3rd century BCE, Maurya period,[2] of Ashoka (r. 273–232 BCE) and his grandson Dasharatha Maurya. Though Buddhists themselves, they allowed various Jain sects to flourish under a policy of religious tolerance.[1]"
"The caves were used by ascetics from the Ajivika sect,[3] founded by Makkhali Gosala, a contemporary of Gautama Buddha, the founder of Buddhism, and of Mahavira, the last and 24th Tirthankara of Jainism.[4] Also present at the site are several rock-cut Buddhist and Hindu sculptures.[5]"
"Most caves at Barabar consist of two chambers, carved entirely out of granite, with a highly polished internal surface and exciting echo effect. The first chamber was meant for worshippers to congregate in a large rectangular hall, and the second, a small, circular, domed chamber for worship, this inner chamber probably had a small stupa like structure, at some point, though they are now empty."
The caves were featured – located in a fictitious Marabar – in the book A Passage to India by English author E. M. Forster. These were also shown in the book The Mahabharata Secret by Indian author Christopher C. Doyle.
"Barabar Hill contains four caves, namely, Karan Chaupar, Lomas Rishi, Sudama and Visva Zopri. Sudama and Lomas Rishi Caves are the earliest examples of rock-cut architecture in India,[2][6] with architectural detailing, made in the Mauryan period, and became a trend the subsequent centuries,[7] like the larger Buddhist Chaitya, that were found in Maharashtra, such as in Ajanta and Karla Caves, and greatly influenced the tradition of South Asian rock-cut architecture.[3] Barabar caves have magnanimous arches which are few in ancient history."
"Barabar Caves General view of cave temples in the Barabar Hills, Bihar. Mauryan architecture in the Barabar Mounts. Grotto of Lomas Rishi. 3rd century BCE. Sudama and Lomas Rishi Caves at Barabar, Bihar, an 1870 photograph. Plan of the Barabar Caves and an elevation of the entrance to the Lomas Rishi Cave, Barabar, Bihar."
Shri Mahavir Sthan Nyas Samiti
Visits
Mahavir Mandir महावीर मंदिर Mahavir Mandir महावीर मंदिर Location in Patna Name Other names Hanuman Mandir Proper name Mahavir Mandir Devanagari महावीर मंदिर या हनुमान मंदिर Geography Coordinates 25°36′14″N 85°8′11″E﻿ / ﻿25.60389°N 85.13639°E﻿ / 25.60389; 85.13639Coordinates: 25°36′14″N 85°8′11″E﻿ / ﻿25.60389°N 85.13639°E﻿ / 25.60389; 85.13639 Country India State Bihar Location Patna Culture Primary deity Hanuman Architecture Architectural styles Nagri Architecture History and governance Date built First built - unknown Rebuilt - 1947 Final Rebuilt - 1987 Creator unknown Website http://www.mahavirmandirpatna.org/
"Mahavir Mandir (Hindi: महावीर मंदिर or हनुमान मंदिर) is one of the holiest Hindu temples dedicated to Lord Hanuman, located in Patna, Bihar, India. Million of pilgrims visit the temple every year and is the second most visited religious shrine in North India. Acharya Kishore Kunal is the secretary of the Mahavir Mandir Temple Trust, Patna.[1]"
The Mahavir Mandir Trusts have the second highest budget in North India after the famous Maa Vaishno Devi shrine.[2] The earning of Mahavir Mandir has gone now up to an average of ₹1 lakh per day.[3]
The first establishment date of temple is unknown. This temple gained popularity in 1947 with large number of Hindu refugees coming to Patna after the partition of India. Subsequently temple was rebuilt as a concrete house at same time. Even this was broken down in 1987 to make a huge marble temple. The idol of Sankat-Mochan stands in it.[4]
"Long winding queues can be seen at the temple on Saturdays and Tuesdays, the traditional worshiping days of Lord Hanuman."
"Mahavir Mandir Trusts is named Shri Mahavir Sthan Nyas Samiti(श्री महावीरस्थान न्यास समीती) and monitors working and development of temple. The Trusts also runs human welfare organization like Mahavir Cancer Institute & Research Centre,[6] Mahavir Vaatsalya Hospital and Mahavir Arogya Hospital and several hospitals and orphanage in the agricultural and rural state of Bihar. The trust has submitted its 2008-09 budget, which is of ₹35.13 crore.[2] Floating stone has been brought in from famous ramsetu which never sinks in water. It is there for public exhibition."
Capital of later dynasties
Capital of the Maurya Empire
Excavated sites of Pataliputra
Pataliputra पाटलिपुत्र Pātaliputtā (Pāli) Ancient city Plan of Pataliputra compared to present-day Patna Pataliputra Show map of India Pataliputra Show map of Bihar Map of Patna Coordinates: 25°36′40″N 85°08′38″E﻿ / ﻿25.611°N 85.144°E﻿ / 25.611; 85.144Coordinates: 25°36′40″N 85°08′38″E﻿ / ﻿25.611°N 85.144°E﻿ / 25.611; 85.144 Country India State Bihar Region Magadha Division Patna District Patna Government  • Body Patna Municipal Corporation Elevation 53 m (174 ft)
"Pataliputra (IAST: Pāṭaliputra), adjacent to modern-day Patna, was a city in ancient India, originally built by Magadha ruler Ajatashatru in 490 BCE as a small fort (Pāṭaligrāma) near the Ganges river.[1]"
"Extensive archaeological excavations have been made in the vicinity of modern Patna.[2][3] Excavations early in the 20th century around Patna revealed clear evidence of large fortification walls, including reinforcing wooden trusses.[4]"
"The etymology of Pataliputra is unclear. ""Putra"" means son, and ""pāţali"" is a species of rice or the plant Bignonia suaveolens.[5] One traditional etymology[6] holds that the city was named after the plant.[7] Another tradition says that Pāṭaliputra means the son of Pāṭali, who was the daughter of Raja Sudarshan.[8] As it was known as Pāṭali-grāma (""Pāṭali village"") originally, some scholars believe that Pāṭaliputra is a transformation of Pāṭalipura, ""Pāṭali town"".[9]"
"There is no mention of Pataliputra in written sources prior to the early Buddhist texts (the Pali Canon and Āgamas), where it appears as the village of Pataligrama and is omitted from a list of major cities in the region.[10] Early Buddhist sources report a city being built in the vicinity of the village towards the end of the Buddha's life; this generally agrees with archaeological evidence showing urban development occurring in the area no earlier than the 3rd or 4th Century BCE.[10] In 303 BCE, Greek historian and ambassador Megasthenes mentioned Pataliputra as a city in his work Indika.[11]"
The city of Pataliputra was formed by fortification of a village by Haryanka ruler Bimbisara.[12]
"Two important early Buddhist councils are recorded in early Buddhist texts as being held here, the First Buddhist council immediately following the death of the Buddha and the Second Buddhist council in the reign of Ashoka. Jain and Brahmanical sources identify Udayabhadra, son of Ajatashatru, as the king who first established Pataliputra as the capital of Magadha.[10]"
"During the reign of Emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century BCE, it was one of the world's largest cities, with a population of 150,000–400,000.[15] The city is estimated to have had a surface of 25.5 square kilometers, and a circumference of 33.8 kilometers, and was in the shape of a parallelogram and had 64 gates (that is, approximately one gate every 500 meters).[16] Pataliputra reached the pinnacle of prosperity when it was the capital of the great Mauryan Emperors, Chandragupta Maurya and Ashoka. The city prospered under the Mauryas and a Greek ambassador, Megasthenes, resided there and left a detailed account of its splendour, referring to it as ""Palibothra"":"
"Ashoka's Palace in Pataliputra and the monument columns everywhere in India were built to imitate the Achaemenid palaces and Persepolis columns. The architecture of Pataliputra's enclosures and the monumental columns of Ashoka had been affected by Persian Achaemenid architecture.[20] The design of the Pataliputra palace capital has been described as Perso-Iionic, with a strong late-archaic Greek stylistic influence, including volute, bead and reel, meander or honeysuckle designs.[21]"
"The city also became a flourishing Buddhist centre boasting a number of important monasteries. It remained the capital of the Gupta dynasty (3rd–6th centuries) and the Pala Dynasty (8th-12th centuries). The city was largely in ruins when visited by Xuanzang, and suffered further damage at the hands of Muslim raiders in the 12th century.[22] Afterwards, Sher Shah Suri made Pataliputra his capital and changed the name to modern Patna."
Pataliputra
"Though parts of the ancient city have been excavated, much of it still lies buried beneath modern Patna. Various locations have been excavated, including Kumhrar, and Bulandi Bagh."
"During the Mauryan period, the city was described as being shaped as parallelogram, approximately 1.5 miles wide and 9 miles long. Its wooden walls were pierced by 64 gates. Archaeological research has found remaining portions of the wooden palisade over several kilometers, but stone fortifications have not been found.[23]"
Kumhrar Bulandi Bagh Agam Kuan Goalghar Gurudwara at Gayeghat
Ganesh Temple
Hathiya Pol and Elephant Gate
Places of interest
Rohtasan Temple And Devi Temple
The Hanging House
"The Rohtasgarh Fort or Rohtas Fort is one of the most ancient forts of India located in a small town of Rohtas in Bihar. The culture of the Sone Valley is best symbolized by the Rohtas Fort which is a testimony of strength and power. The majestic fort lies in utter state of ruins reminiscent of its great past, frequented few times by the naxalites and the police patrol parties. Proximity to the naxalite affected areas has rendered the fort quiet inaccessible in recent times."
The imposing ramparts
"Rohtasgarh is situated on the upper course of the river Son, 24° 57′ N, 84° 2′E. It takes around two hours from Sasaram to reach the foot of the hill over which is the Rohtas fort.It can be reached easily from (Dehri on sone) town. Dehri on sone town has very good road network through which one can easily reach Rohtasfort via Rasoolpur. The fort is situated at about 1500 feet above sea level. The 2000 odd limestone steps were probably meant for elephants. For the visitor they are exhausting climb of an hour and a half. At the end of the climb, one reaches the boundary wall of the fort. A dilapidated gate with a cupola can be seen there, which is the first of many gates provided for well-guarded entrances to the fort. From here one has to walk another mile or so before the ruins of Rohtas can be seen."
"A 1223 CE (1279 VS) inscription suggests that Rohtasgarh was in possession of one Shri Pratapa.[1] The inscription states that he defeated a ""Yavana"" army; the ""Yavana"" here probably refers to a Muslim general.[2] F. Kielhorn identified Shri Pratapa (Śrī-Pratāpa) as a member of the Khayaravala dynasty, whose inscriptions have been found at other locations in the Rohtas district. The members of this dynasty ruled the Japila territory as feudatories, possibly that of the Gahadavalas. According to historian Roma Niyogi, the Khayaravalas are probably represented by the modern Kharwars.[3]"
"In 1539 AD, the Fort of Rohtas passed out of the hands of the Hindu kings into those of Sher Shah Suri. Sher Shah Suri had just lost the Fort at Chunar in a fight with the Mughal emperor Humayun and was desperate to gain a foothold for himself. Sher Shah requested the ruler of Rohtas that he wanted to leave his women, children and treasure in the safety of the fort, while he was away fighting in Bengal. The king agreed and the first few palanquins had women and children. But the later ones contained fierce Afghan soldiers, who captured Rohtas and forced the Hindu king to flee. During the Sher Shah's reign 10000-armed men guarded the fort."
Rohtasgarh Fort
The Stupa
"Vikramashila विक्रमशिला Ruins of Vikramashila Mahavihara Shown within Bihar Location Bihar, India Coordinates 25°19′29″N 87°17′05″E﻿ / ﻿25.32472°N 87.28472°E﻿ / 25.32472; 87.28472Coordinates: 25°19′29″N 87°17′05″E﻿ / ﻿25.32472°N 87.28472°E﻿ / 25.32472; 87.28472 Type Centre of learning History Founded 8th-9th century CE Abandoned 13th century CE Events Destroyed by Bakhtiyar Khilji around 1200 CE"
"Vikramashila (IAST: Vikramaśilā) was one of the two most important centres of Buddhist learning in India during the Pala empire, along with Nalanda. Vikramashila was established by King Dharmapala (783 to 820) in response to a supposed decline in the quality of scholarship at Nalanda. Atisha, the renowned pandit, is sometimes listed as a notable abbot. It was destroyed by the forces of Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji around 1200.[1]"
"Vikramashila (village Antichak, district Bhagalpur, Bihar) is located at about 50 km east of Bhagalpur and about 13 km north-east of Kahalgaon, a railway station on Bhagalpur-Sahebganj section of Eastern Railway. It is approachable through 11 km long motorable road diverting from N.H.80 at Anadipur about 2 km from Kahalgaon."
"A number of monasteries grew up during the Pāla period in ancient Bengal and Magadha. According to Tibetan sources, five great Mahaviharas stood out: Vikramashila, the premier university of the era; Nalanda, past its prime but still illustrious, Somapura, Odantapura, and Jagaddala.[2] The five monasteries formed a network; ""all of them were under state supervision"" and there existed ""a system of co-ordination among them . . it seems from the evidence that the different seats of Buddhist learning that functioned in eastern India under the Pāla were regarded together as forming a network, an interlinked group of institutions,"" and it was common for great scholars to move easily from position to position among them.[3]"
Vikramashila was founded by Pāla king Dharmapala in the late 8th or early 9th century. It prospered for about four centuries before it was destroyed by Bakhtiyar Khilji along with the other major centres of Buddhism in India around 1200.[4][5]
"Vikramashila is known to us mainly through Tibetan sources, especially the writings of Tāranātha, the Tibetan monk historian of the 16th-17th centuries.[6]"
"Vikramashila was one of the largest Buddhist universities, with more than one hundred teachers and about one thousand students. It produced eminent scholars who were often invited by foreign countries to spread Buddhist learning, culture and religion. The most distinguished and eminent among all was Atiśh Dipankar, a founder of the Sarma traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. Subjects like philosophy, grammar, metaphysics, Indian logic etc. were taught here, but the most important branch of learning was tantrism."
The wall carvings of various deities
Shri Champapur Digamber Jain Siddha Kshetra
Champapur Show map of Bihar Show map of India Location in Bihar Coordinates: 27°06′29″N 84°27′50″E﻿ / ﻿27.1080°N 84.4640°E﻿ / 27.1080; 84.4640Coordinates: 27°06′29″N 84°27′50″E﻿ / ﻿27.1080°N 84.4640°E﻿ / 27.1080; 84.4640 Country  India State Bihar District West Champaran Block Narkatiaganj Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 845451 Telephone code 06254 Vehicle registration BR-22 Nearest city Narkatiaganj Sex ratio ♂/♀ Lok Sabha constituency Valmiki Nagar Vidhan Sabha constituency Narkatiaganj Civic agency Champapur Climate Normal Website
"Champapur is a village in Narkatiaganj Subdivision region West Champaran district in the Indian state of Bihar. The village is15 km away from Narkatiaganj, 36 km from its district West Champaran (also called Bettiah) and 230 km from its state capital city Patna."
"As of 2011 India census, Champapur had a population of 1587 in 290 households. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 46%. Champapur has an average literacy rate of 47.82%, lower than the national average of 74%: male literacy is 64.16%, and female literacy is 35.83%. In Champapur, 22% of the population is under 6 years of age.[1]"
"The main temple of Champapur Siddha Kshetra is around 2500 years. The principal deity of Bhagwan Vasupujya,12th tirthankara in Jainism. Champapur is also considered the birthplace of Vasupujya bhagwan and is place where all the five Kalyanaks i.e., Garbha, Janam, Tapa, KevalGyan and Moksha Kalyanak of Bhagwan Vasupujya are performed. This temple being symbolic of ‘Panch Kalyanaka’ is adorned with 5 altars, magnificent spire and 2 columns of fame. Moolnayak of this temple is a red colored Padmasana idol of Bhagwan Vasupoojya Swami.The color of this idol is comparable to the actual complexion of Bhagwan Vasupoojya. Another idol of Bhagwan Vasupoojya is an Ashta Dhatu (Alloy of eight metals)."
"In 2014, the tallest statue of Vasupujya of 31 feet was installed here."
"Gurdwara Handi Sahib Gurdwara Handi Sahib Location in Bihar Name Proper name Gurudwara Handi Sahib Geography Coordinates 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′3.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167Coordinates: 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′3.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167 Country India State Bihar Location Danapur, Patna Culture Primary deity Guru Architecture Architectural styles Gurdwara History and governance Date built First build - unknown Final Rebuild - 1980 Creator unknown"
"Gurdwara Handi Sahib is situated in Danapur is a cantonment station, 20 km west of old Patna City. Guru Tegh Bahadur had returned to Punjab in April 1670 leaving his family behind at Patna. The family after leaving Patna Sahib made their first halt here. An old lady named Mai Pardhani served a kettleful (handi) of khichari to them after which the shrine subsequently built here was named as Handiwali Sangat, which is now called Gurdwara handi Sahib."
Gurdwara Guru ka Bagh Gurdwara Guru ka Bagh Location in Bihar Name Proper name Gurdwara Guru ka Bagh Geography Coordinates 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′03.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167Coordinates: 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′03.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167 Country India State Bihar Location Patna Culture Primary deity Guru Architecture Architectural styles Gurdwara History and governance Date built unknown
"About three kilometers east of Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib is where Guru Tegh Bahadur first alighted in a garden (bagh) belonging to Nawabs Rahim Bakhsh and Karim Bakhsh, nobles of Patna, and where the sangat of Patna along with the young Guru Gobind Singh came out to receive him back from his four-year-long odyssey. A shrine commemorative of the first meeting of Tegh Bahadur and Gobind Singh was established here.[1] Its present building was constructed during the 1970s and 1980s. An old well still in use and a dried stump of the imli tree under which the sangat met Guru Tegh Bahadur still exist."
Gurdwara Bal Lila Maini Gurdwara Bal Lila Maini Location in Bihar Name Proper name Gurdwara Bal Lila Maini Geography Coordinates 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′03.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167Coordinates: 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′03.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167 Country India State Bihar Location Patna Culture Primary deity Guru Architecture Architectural styles Gurdwara History and governance Date built unknown Creator King Fateh Chand Maini
"Gurdwara Bal Lila Maini in a narrow lane close to Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib marks the house where King Fateh Chand Maini lived. His childless Queen had developed special fondness for the young Guru Gobind Singh, who, too, often came here to sit in the Queen's lap giving her immense delight and spiritual solace. She fed the Child Gobind and his playmates, at this demand, with boiled and salted gram.[1] Even now boiled and salted gram is served as prasad (consecrated food) in this Gurdwara, which, unlike the other shrines in Patna Sahib, is served by Nirmala Sikhs. A wood carving on the old front door is dated August 28, 1668, but the hall housing the sanctum and other blocks of rooms in the inner compound have been reconstructed during recent decades."
Gurdwara Gobind Ghat Gurdwara Gobind Ghat Location in Bihar Name Proper name Gurdwara Gobind Ghat Geography Coordinates 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′3.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167Coordinates: 25°36′28.77″N 85°10′3.06″E﻿ / ﻿25.6079917°N 85.1675167°E﻿ / 25.6079917; 85.1675167 Country India State Bihar Location Patna Culture Primary deity Guru Architecture Architectural styles Gurdwara History and governance Creator unknown
"Gurdwara Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ghat situated on the bank of river Ganges is hardly 200 yards from Takht Sri Patna Sahib. It is also popular as Kangan Ghat where child Guru Gobind Singh had thrown his gold bangle. On the same bank child Guru Gobind Singh had blessed mental peace to Pandit Shiv Dutt, a devotee of Rama."
"Here the child Guru Gobind Singh used to play with his playmates on the bank of the Ganges. This ghat about one furlong from Takht Shri Harmandir Saheb is marked by a gateway over which this Gurdwara is situated in a single room. The river has, however, receded since away to the north."
Gurdwara Gobind Ghat is also known as Gurdwara Kangan Ghat
Buddhist legends
Kesaria Stupa
Viraat Ramayan Mandir
"Kesariya केसरिया Kasariya Hamlet Nickname(s): Kesaputta Kesariya Location in Bihar, India Coordinates: 26°20′03″N 84°51′17″E﻿ / ﻿26.334192°N 84.854820°E﻿ / 26.334192; 84.854820Coordinates: 26°20′03″N 84°51′17″E﻿ / ﻿26.334192°N 84.854820°E﻿ / 26.334192; 84.854820 Country  India State Bihar District East Champaran Languages  • Official Maithili, Hindi, Urdu, Bhojpuri Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 845424"
"Kesariya is a town in Bihar, India in the district of East Champaran, near Rampur Khajuria (NH28). It is the site of a stupa built by the Mauryan king Ashoka."
"Ancient Kesariya was called Kesaputta and was a republic ruled by Kalamas, which was later annexed by its monarchical neighbour Kosala. Alara Kalama, the teacher of Buddha before enlightenment, is said to belong to Kesaputta. Buddha is also said to have had direct connection with Kesaputta. According to Jataka stories Buddha ruled this place as a Chakravartin Raja in his previous birth. Similarly, it was during one of his visits to Kesaputta that Buddha gave one of his most important discourses, the celebrated Kessaputtiya Sutta, popularly known as Kalama Sutta. Kesariya stupa is believed to have been built to honor the place where Lord Buddha had spent the last days of his journey, before attaining Nirvana. It is said that on his last journey to Pawa Lord Buddha handed over his begging bowl to the following Lichhivis, people of Vaishali and requested them to go back to Vaishali. To venerate the end life of Lord Buddha, the Lichhivis are said to have built this stupa. While formerly, it was only a mud stupa, it gained its present structure in the Maurya, Sunga and Kushana period. Huien Tsang mentions having seen the grand Stupa in Kia-shi-po-lo (Kesariya) but it was deserted and vegetation had overgrown."
"In the 1998 excavation, the place around the stupa was found to house significant items, like Islamic coins, arrow heads, copper and terracotta items, earthen lamps, decorated bricks, etc. A number of images of Lord Buddha, in ‘Bhoomi Sparsh Mudra’ and other sitting postures, were also found."
"The stupa was discovered in 1958 during an excavation led by Archaeologist KK Muhammed of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The stupa dates to between 200 AD and 750 AD and may have been associated with the 4th century ruler, Raja Chakravarti.[1] The local people call this Stupa as Devala, ""means the house of god"". Before the excavation of this, they believed that inside it there is a temple of 'Lord shiva' which is built by king Bhema ."
"Viraat Ramayan Mandir is an upcoming Hindu temple complex that began construction[1] in Kesaria, Bihar, India, in 2012 with an estimated budget of INR500 crore.[2] When completed, it will be the largest religious monument in the world, even larger than the Angkor Wat, Cambodia.[3] The Virat Ramayan Mandir will be almost double the height of the world famous 12th century Angkor Wat temple complex in Cambodia, which is 215 feet high.The temple will have a hall with a seating capacity of 20,000 people.[4]"
Kesaria
"Viraat Ramayan Mandir Plan of Viraat Ramayan Mandir Viraat Ramayan Mandir Location in Bihar Name Devanagari विराट रामायण मंदिर Geography Coordinates 26°21′54″N 84°52′23″E﻿ / ﻿26.365°N 84.873°E﻿ / 26.365; 84.873Coordinates: 26°21′54″N 84°52′23″E﻿ / ﻿26.365°N 84.873°E﻿ / 26.365; 84.873 Country India State/province Bihar District East Champaran Location Kesaria Culture Primary deity Rama History and governance Creator Mahavir Mandir Trust, Patna Website viraatramayanmandir.net"
"Viraat Ramayan Mandir is an upcoming Hindu temple complex[1] in Kesaria, Bihar, India, with an estimated budget of ₹500 crore (US$74 million).[2] When completed, it will be the largest religious monument in the world.[3] The Virat Ramayan Mandir will be almost double the height of the world famous 12th century Angkor Wat temple complex in Cambodia, which is 215 feet high.[4] The temple will have a hall with a seating capacity of 20,000 people.[5] The construction of the temple is scheduled to start in June 2015, but has since been delayed following the Cambodia government's protest to the government of India.[6]"
The temple is inspired from the Angkor Wat Temple in Cambodia and Rameshwaram and Minakashi Temples in India. The temple will comprise 18 homes for various Hindu gods with focus on Lord Ram and Sita.[7] The plan is spearheaded by Acharya Kishore Kunal.
"Patna based, Mahavir Mandir Trust first proposed the project, under the name of Viraat Angkor Wat Ram Mandir in Hajipur,[8] the twin city of Patna. But temple trust acquired 161 acres of land in East Champaran district[9] and therefore the earlier site of Hajipur had been abandoned."
"In August 2012, after the concern and sentiment of the Cambodia Government,[10] when Indian Government asked Mahavir Mandir Trust not to build the exact replica of Angkor Wat.[11] The trust changed the name from Virat Angkor Wat Ram Temple to Virat Ramayan Mandir. On November 13, 2013, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar unveiled a model of the temple.[12] largest Hindu temple unveiled in Bihar"
"It is located at a distance of 60 km from Vaishali and at a distance of 120 km from Patna, the capital of Bihar. Its exact location is at Janaki Nagar near Kesaria in North Bihar. It will be spread over an area of 200 acres[13] at Bahuara-Kathwalia villages on Kesariya-Chakia road in East Champaran district. It will be 2800 ft in length, 1400 ft in width and 405 ft in height.[9][14]"
Official website of Mahavir Mandir Trust Official website
Reaching at the temple
Thawewali Maa
Thawe Mandir Name Proper name Thawe Mandir Devanagari थावे मंदिर Geography Coordinates 26°25′45″N 84°23′40″E﻿ / ﻿26.42917°N 84.39444°E﻿ / 26.42917; 84.39444Coordinates: 26°25′45″N 84°23′40″E﻿ / ﻿26.42917°N 84.39444°E﻿ / 26.42917; 84.39444 Country India State Bihar District Gopalganj Location Thawe
"Thawe Mandir, the Temple of Maa Thawewali is situated in Thawe, in Gopalganj District in the State of Bihar, India. It is only 6 km from Gopalganj town on the Gopalganj-Siwan National Highway."
"There is a very good railway network that connects “Thawe” to the different parts of the state and other cities of our country. The nearest railway junction ""thawe"" but it not connect by the major metro city then other major railway station is siwan and it is directly connected to the four metro cities Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata & Chennai. This is also well connected to other city of our country. Gorakhpur and Patna the major rail heads are also directly connected to “Thawe” via Siwan & Chapra. From National Capital New Delhi, many Express & Super fast Trains are available to reach Patna and Siwan via Lucknow-Mughalsarai and Kanpur-Varanasi, Lucknow-Gorakhpur respectively. Thawe also having railway junction. After arrival at Patna or Siwan one can reach Maa’s Temple very easily by train or Bus. Also Taxi service is available from Patna, Siwan, Gopalganj, Chapra & Gorakhpur throughout the day."
Inner view of Thawe Mandir
"The holy place of Maa Thawewali is situated in Thawe in Gopalganj District in Bihar, India. Maa has arrived here from her another holy place Kamrup, Assam where she well known as “Maa Kamakhya” on the prayer of her great devotee “Shree Rahshu Bhagat Ji”. Maa also known as “Singhasini Devi”. Thawewali Maa is very kind hearted and taking care of her devotee. No one has come empty handed from Maata temple. Maa has always answered the prayers of her devotees."
Thawe mandir view
St Mary's Church Basic information Location Patna Geographic coordinates 25°36′40″N 85°08′38″E﻿ / ﻿25.611°N 85.144°E﻿ / 25.611; 85.144Coordinates: 25°36′40″N 85°08′38″E﻿ / ﻿25.611°N 85.144°E﻿ / 25.611; 85.144 Affiliation Roman Catholic Municipality Patna Municipal Corporation District Patna district State India Province Bihar Region Magadh Ecclesiastical or organizational status Cathedral Heritage designation Oldest Church of Bihar Leadership Ambrose Patrick (Vice-President) Architectural description Architect(s) Tirreto Architectural type Cathedral Architectural style American colonial architecture Completed First build – 1713 Major redisgn – 1772 Construction cost {INR}700 in 1772
"Padri-Ki-Haveli (""Mansion of Padre""), also known as St Mary's Church, it is the oldest church in Bihar. When Roman Catholics arrived in Bihar, they built a small church in 1713 at a place now known as Padri-ki-Haveli.[1]"
"The current church was re-designed by a Venetian architect Tirreto in 1772. He came from Kolkata to design this church. The foundation stone of this huge church has a dimension of 70 feet in length, 40 feet wide and 50 feet in height.[2]"
"Nawab Mir Qasim destroyed this church because of the quarrel with the British traders on 25 June 1763. Ancient records were destroyed and burnt consequently. Later, in 1857 during the Great Indian Rebellion again this church suffered with many damages."
"Today, the monument stands as an architectural wonder with intricate details which can be seen in few other churches of India."
The main attraction of the church is the large cathedral bell.[3] Mother Teresa got her training in this church.[4]
"Kargil Chowk is a War memorial. It was established in year 2000, at the North-East corner of Gandhi Maidan, Patna.[1] It is dedicated to the soldiers from Bihar & Jharkhand who had sacrificed their lives in the Kargil War in 1999.[2]"
List engraved names on Kargil Chowk
Following are the martyrs whose names are engraved on Kargil Chowk war memorial.[3]
In popular culture
"Of late Kargil Chowk has witnessed several candle light marches by the general public to pay homage, to protest and to demand justice.[4][5][6]"
Planning and Significance
Traffic Congestion
"Mahatma Gandhi Setu (also called Gandhi Setu or Ganga Setu) is a bridge over the river Ganges connecting Patna in the south to Hajipur in the north of Bihar.[2] Its length is 5,750 metres (18,860 ft)[3] and it is the longest river bridge in India.[4][5] It was inaugurated in May 1982 by the then Prime Minister, Mrs Indira Gandhi, inauguration took place at north end of the bridge located in Hajipur viewed by thousands of people."
"The bridge was approved by the Central Government in 1969 and built by Gammon India Limited over a period of ten years, from 1972 to 1982 with total expenditure of Rs 87.22 crore at that time. . It was built to connect North Bihar with the rest of Bihar and part of national highway 19 (NH19). . Before this bridge was constructed, Rajendra Setu, opened in 1959, was the only link to North Bihar. Since then, the Vikramshila Setu has also been built across the Ganges. Two more rail-cum-road bridges are currently under construction, between Digha and Sonepur[6] and at Munger.[7]"
The Indian postal department issued a commemorative postage stamp on Landmark Bridges Of India: Mahatma Gandhi Setu of denomination 0500 Paise on 17 August 2007.[8]
"In recent times, the bridge has been witnessing major traffic chaos and accidents due to exceeding number of vehicles passing over it and regularly overloading the structure. Bihar Government is planning to build two Pontoon bridges in parallel to it, in order to ease traffic.[12] Over 85,000 vehicles pass through Gandhi Setu.[13]"
"The Martyr's Memorial, also known as Shaheed Smarak, is a life-size statue of seven young men who sacrificed their lives in the Quit India movement (August 1942), to hoist the national flag on the (now) Secretariat building. The foundation stone of Martyr's Memorial was laid on August 15, 1947, by the governor of Bihar, Mr. Jairam Das Daulatram. The sculptor Deviprasad Roychoudhury built the bronze statue of the seven students with the national flag. These statues were cast in Italy and later placed here.[1]"
Martyr's Memorial is situated outside the Secretariat building in Patna.[2][3]
Background/List engraved names on Martyr's Memorial
"During the height of Quit India Movement [4] in 1942, eminent Gandhian Dr.Anugrah Narain was arrested while he was trying to unfurl the national flag in Patna,as a strong reaction, a group of seven young students decided to forcefully unfurl the national flag in Patna and were mercilessly shot dead by the British. Following are the martyrs, whose names are engraved on Martyr's Memorial."
"Umakant Prasad Sinha(Raman Ji) - Ram Mohan Roy Seminary,class IX, Narendrapur, Saran Ramanand Singh - Ram Mohan Roy Seminary, class IX, Sahadat Nagar (at present Dhanarua), Patna Satish Prasad Jha - Patna Collegiate School, class X, Khadahara, Bhagalpur Jagatpati Kumar - Bihar National College, 2nd year, Kharati, Aurangabad Devipada Choudhry - Miller High English School, class IX, Silhat, Jamalpur Rajendra Singh - Patna High English School, matric class, Banwari Chak, Saran Ramgovind Singh - Punpun High English School, matric class IX, Dasharatha, Patna"
Overview
"Kakolat Falls ककोलत जलप्रपात Kakolat Falls Location Kakolat, Nawada district, Bihar,  India Type Cataract, Segmented Elevation 160 feet (50 m) Total height 150 feet Number of drops 1 Longest drop 163 feet"
"Kakolat is the name of a waterfall located in the Nawada district of Bihar, India."
"Kakolat waterfall a stunning little hidden wonder of nature, situated on the beautiful Kakolat hill, located on the border of Bihar and Jharkhand, just 33 km from Nawada. This is one of the most visited and renowned Bihar getaway, where tourists come from all over the state and adjoining areas to witness the sheer beauty of Mother Nature cascading marvelously. The Kakolat waterfall of Bihar cascades down from a height of between 150 and 160 feet and forms a natural reservoir at the base of the waterfall. Good fall in bihar"
"Legends are also associated with the Kakolat waterfall such as, a Treta Yug king was cursed to take the shape of a python and live at the falls here, by a Hindu spiritualist. The place was then visited by the Pandavas during their exile and it was during that time that the python king got rid of the curse, and he proclaimed that any person who bathed in the waterfall would never be reborn as a snake."
"Telhar Falls Telhar Falls Location Kaimur, Bihar, India Type Cataract, Segmented Number of drops 1"
"Telhar is the name of a waterfall located near B T Road in the kaimur district of Bihar, India."
The word ‘Bihar’ has been derived from the Sanskrit and Pali language ‘vihara’ meaning ‘abode’. The state had ‘abodes’ of the Buddhists in nearly all parts of the state. The waterfalls in Bihar have some significance attached to the religion for both the Hindus and Buddhists.[1]
this is the fall of the where if the man is fall down in this fall then he never return from it so we can visualize that how it is deep as we think ...
"Bhimbandh Wildlife Sanctuary Bhimbandh Bihar Wildlife sanctuary Bhimbandh Wildlife Sanctuary Location in Bihar, India Coordinates: 25°14′N 86°17′E﻿ / ﻿25.23°N 86.28°E﻿ / 25.23; 86.28Coordinates: 25°14′N 86°17′E﻿ / ﻿25.23°N 86.28°E﻿ / 25.23; 86.28 Country  India State Bihar District Munger district Established 1976 Area  • Total 681.99 km2 (263.32 sq mi) Elevation 80 m (260 ft) Languages  • Official Maithili, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Nearest city Jamui Governing body Government of India, Government of Bihar Precipitation 2,220 millimetres (87 in) Avg. summer temperature 37 °C (99 °F) Avg. winter temperature 5 °C (41 °F)"
Bhimbandh Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary in Bihar in the south west of Munger district.
"According to Mahabharat, Bhima, one of the pandavas, constructed a dam (bandh) here and therefore it is called Bhimbandh."
"Bhimbandh Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the south west of Munger district. The forests cover an area or 681.99 km² on the hills and undulating tract of Kharagpur Hills. It is situated at a distance of 56 km from southern border of Munger,[1] 20 km from Jamui Railway Station and 200 km from Patna Airport.[2]"
"The climate is normal for the Munger district. There are three distinct seasons in this zone, summer (March to May), monsoon (June to September) and winter (October to February). Average annual rainfall of this district is 1146 mm."
Collections
"Patna Museum Patna Museum Established 1917 (1917) Location Buddha Marg, Patna, Bihar Coordinates 25°36′40″N 85°8′38″E﻿ / ﻿25.61111°N 85.14389°E﻿ / 25.61111; 85.14389 Type Archaeological & Natural[1] Visitors 800,119 (2007) Director JPN Singh[2]"
"Patna Museum is the state museum of the Indian state of Bihar. Built in 1917 during the British Raj to house the historical artefacts found in the vicinity of Patna,[3] it is in the style of Mughal and Rajput architecture and is known locally as the Jadu Ghar."
"The Museum was constructed by the British to conserve and display the historical artifacts found in the vicinity of the state capital. The concept of having a museum arose in 1912, after Bihar and Bengal were separated. Patna Museum started functioning in 1915 from the commissioner's bungalow, on the campus of A. N. Sinha Institute."
"The artifacts were then shifted to new rooms at the Patna High Court building before being taken to the present building in 1929. The land that was selected for the museum, in 1925, was on Patna-Gaya road (now Budh Marg). The two-storeyed building, designed by Rai Bahadur Bishnu Swarup, was completed in 1928.[4] It was opened as the first museum of Bihar and Orissa Province by then Governor of Bihar and Orissa, Sir Hugh Lansdown Stephenson.[4]"
"Items on display in the multipurpose museum include archaeological objects, coins, art objects, paintings, instruments, textiles, paintings, thankas, bronze images and sculptures and terra cotta images by Hindu and Buddhist artists.[1] It has a rare collection of British-period paintings depicting day-to-day life, as well as a fine collection related to the first President of India, Rajendra Prasad. It also houses a World War I cannon.[5]"
"The fossil of a tree said to be more than 200 million years old is on display,[1] as is a casket — unearthed in 1958 by archaeologist, A. S. Altekar, at the Relic Stupa of Vaishali — said to contain the sacred ashes (relics) of Gautama Buddha.[6] A Didarganj Yakshi statue, discovered on a Ganges riverbank in 1917, is the museum's most prized collection.[1]"
"Beginning November 2009, a project was started to build a replacement museum in Patna to enable the display of larger collections."
"Jalan Museum, Patna Qila House Established 1919 Location Patna, Bihar, India Coordinates 25°35′55″N 85°13′46″E﻿ / ﻿25.598591°N 85.229547°E﻿ / 25.598591; 85.229547 Type Art & Heritage Museum[1] Collections 10,000 objects[2] Owner Aditya Jalan[3] Website quilahouse.com"
"The Jalan Museum (Hindi: जलान संग्रहालय) is a private museum located in Patna, Bihar, India. It is one of the only two private museums in Bihar state.[4][5]"
"Built in 1919, this museum was established by Diwan Bahadur Radha Krishna Jalan (R.K. Jalan) (1882 - 1954), who was a business and an art collector.[6] The building it is in the style of English and Dutch and is known locally as the Quila House.[7] The museum is situated in Patna City area, beside the bank of Ganges in Patna."
"The collection of objects numbering to about 10,000, belonged mostly to the modern period include stone, metal, terraotta, ivory, glass and porcelains. Of the art objects, many are European and a few from the far and near eastern countries of Asia.[2][8]"
"Part of the building continues to be a private residential area of the Jalan family. The museum is open to visitors 9-11 am, Mondays to Saturdays, and 10 am - 4 pm on Sundays, though prior appointment, 48 hours before the visit is required.[9]"
Jalan Museum
"Bihar Museum logo Location Patna, Bihar, India Coordinates 25°36′29″N 85°07′16″E﻿ / ﻿25.6080702°N 85.1209921°E﻿ / 25.6080702; 85.1209921 Type Art museum Owner Youth Art & Culture Dept., Government of Bihar[1] Website biharmuseum.org"
"The Bihar Museum (Hindi: बिहार संग्रहालय) is a modern state of the art museum being constructed in Patna.[2] It was partially opened in August, 2015.[3] 'The children's museum', the main entrance area, and an orientation theatre were the only parts opened to the public.[4]"
"It was planned as a history museum for the state of Bihar,[5] and began construction in Bailey Road, Patna, Bihar, India, in October 2013 with an estimated budget of ₹498 crore (US$74 million).[6] The Museum was planned to bring the region's thousands year history into focus, inspiring local residents and visitors from across the globe to explore Bihar’s rich heritage, historic sites and cultural attractions.[7][8][9]"
"A 25,000 square meters museum and marketplace concept was to be developed, with ""G+1"" structure and with a very small portion being ""G+4""."
"Japan's Maki & Associates along with Mumbai's Opolis Architects was to develop the architectural design of the Bihar Museum. The proposal included four core exhibition galleries, educational, lobby, administrative and permanent gallery[10]"
"The government had signed a Memorandum of understanding with Canada-based consultancy firm Lord Cultural Resources in July 2011[11] to appoint them consultant for the project. In January 2012, the state cabinet approved the selection of Japan-based Maki & Associates and its Indian partner OPOLIS, Mumbai as the primary consultant architect for the project.[8][12]"
"It is located in Patna, the capital city of the East Indian state of Bihar. Its exact location is on the southern flank of Jawaharlal Nehru Marg, Bailey Road, in Patna. It is spread over an area of 13.9 acres.[5] The site of the proposed museum was earlier occupied by seven old bungalows between LN Mishra Institute and Hartali Mor in Bailey Road. Later in March 2013, the building construction department demolished all the bungalows.[13]"
"Criteria for being ""Great Living Chola Temples"""
"The Great Living Chola Temples are temples built during the Chola rule in the south of India and neighboring islands. These sites includes 3 temples of 11th and 12th century.[1] These 3 temples are the Brihadisvara Temple at Thanjavur, the Temple of Gangaikonda Cholapuram and the Airavatesvara Temple at Darasuram. The Brihadisvara Temple was declared by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site in 1987; the Temple of Gangaikondacholisvaram and the Airavatesvara Temple at Darasuram were added as extensions to the site in 2004. The site is now known as the ""Great Living Chola Temples"".[2][3]"
"Criterion (i): The three Chola temples of Southern India represent an outstanding creative achievement in the architectural conception of the pure form of the Dravidan type of temple. Criterion (ii): The Brihadisvara Temple at Thanjavur became the first great example of the Chola temples, followed by a development of which the other two properties also bear witness. Criterion (iii): The three Great Chola Temples are an exceptional and the most outstanding testimony to the development of the architecture of the Chola Empire and the Tamil civilization in Southern India. Criterion (iv): The Great Chola temples at Thanjavur, at Gangaikondacholapuram and Darasuram are outstanding examples of the architecture and the representation of the Chola ideology."
"Airavatesvara Temple is a Hindu temple of Dravidian architecture located in the town of Darasuram, near Kumbakonam in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu. This temple, built by Rajaraja Chola II in the 12th century CE.[4]"
Media related to Great living Chola temples at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO's World Heritage Site listing the Chola temples Chola Temple Architecture Article on Chola Temples
Government and politics
The stupa and the script
"Bhattiprolu భట్టిప్రోలు Village Buddhist Maha Stupa at Bhattiprolu Bhattiprolu Show map of Andhra Pradesh Bhattiprolu Show map of India Location in Andhra Pradesh, India Coordinates: 16°06′09″N 80°46′51″E﻿ / ﻿16.1026°N 80.7807°E﻿ / 16.1026; 80.7807Coordinates: 16°06′09″N 80°46′51″E﻿ / ﻿16.1026°N 80.7807°E﻿ / 16.1026; 80.7807 Country India State Andhra Pradesh District Guntur Mandal Bhattiprolu Government  • Type Panchayati raj  • Body Bhattiprolu Gram Panchayat  • Sarpanch Kambam Mariyamma Area[1]  • Total 25.15 km2 (9.71 sq mi) Elevation[2] 6 m (20 ft) Population (2011)[3]  • Total 11,092  • Density 440/km2 (1,100/sq mi) Languages  • Official Telugu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration AP"
Bhattiprolu is a village in Guntur district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is the headquarters of Bhattiprolu mandal in Tenali revenue division.[4] It also forms a part of Andhra Pradesh Capital Region.[5]
"The original name of Bhattiprolu was Pratipalapura, a flourishing Buddhist town in the ancient Sala kingdom that predated Andhra Satavahanas. From available inscriptional evidence, King Kuberaka was ruling over Bhattiprolu around 230 BC. Bhattiprolu is well known for its Buddha stupa (Vikramarka kota dibba) built about 3rd-2nd century BC."
"Three mounds were discovered in Bhattiprolu in 1870. In 1892 when excavations were undertaken by Alexander Rea, three inscribed stone relic caskets containing crystal caskets, relics of Buddha and jewels were found.[6] The stupa was found to be 40 meters in diameter with an additional basement of 2.4 meters wide running all around. The most significant discovery is the crystal relic casket of sarira dhatu of the Buddha from the central mass of the stupas. The Mahachaitya (great stupa) remains of a large pillared hall, a large group of ruined votive stupas with several images of Buddha, a stone receptacle containing copper vessel, which in turn, contained two more, a silver casket and within it, a gold casket enclosing beads of bone and crystal were found."
One of the earliest evidence of Brahmi script in South India comes from Bhattiprolu.[7] The script was written on an urn containing Buddha's relics. The script has been named the bhattiprolu alphabet. Historians surmise that this script gave rise to the Telugu Script and kannada script.[8]
It is located at 16°06′09″N 80°46′51″E﻿ / ﻿16.1026°N 80.7807°E﻿ / 16.1026; 80.7807 and at an elevation of 6 m (20 ft).[2]
Bhattiprolu gram panchayat is the local self-government of the village.[10][11] The panchayat has a total of 16 wards and each ward is represented by an elected ward member.[12] The ward members are headed by a sarpanch and the present sarpanch is Kambam Mariyamma.[13][14]
The village has connectivity with National Highway 214A which passes through the village. APSRTC operates buses from Tenali and Repalle via Bhattiprolu. Bhattiprolu railway station is located on Tenali–Repalle branch line and administered under Guntur railway division of South Central Railway zone.[15]
Tourism developments
"Bhavani Island situated in the midst of the Krishna River, at Vijayawada. It is located at the upstream of Prakasam Barrage and is considered as one of the largest river islands in India, with an area of 133 acres (54 ha).[1][2]"
"The Kanaka Durga Temple is the abode of Goddess Durga. She is also known with another name as Bhavani and hence, the island is named Bhavani Island. The island is located in close proximity to the temple.[3]"
"Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation has taken initiatives to develop the place into a tourist spot. One such initiative is Shilparamam, an arts and crafts village project. It is also helpful for local artisans such as Kondapalli toy makers, weavers etc.[4][5] APTDC has developed infrastructure on Bhavani Island to attract many tourists, which include sporting activities, resorts, rural museum, Berm Park, rope-way etc.[6][7]"
"Prakasam Barrage Location of Prakasam Barrage in India Andhra Pradesh Official name ప్రకాశం బ్యారేజి Country India Location Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh Coordinates 16°30′22″N 80°36′18″E﻿ / ﻿16.50611°N 80.60500°E﻿ / 16.50611; 80.60500Coordinates: 16°30′22″N 80°36′18″E﻿ / ﻿16.50611°N 80.60500°E﻿ / 16.50611; 80.60500 Status Operational Construction began 1954 Opening date 1957[1] Dam and spillways Type of dam Barrage Impounds River Krishna Length 1,223.5 m (4,014 ft)"
"The structure of the Prakasam Barrage stretches 1223.5 m across the Krishna River connecting Krishna and Guntur districts. The barrage serves also as a road bridge and spans over a lake. The three canals associated with the barrage run through the city of Vijayawada, crossing it and giving it a Venetian appearance."
"The idea of constructing a dam across the river Krishna dates back to 1798. It began in the hands of captain Buckle and was revised in 1839 and 1841 by Captain Best and Captain Lake. After the endorsement of Major Cotton, the board of Directors of the East India Company approved it on 5 January 1850. The dam was started in 1852 and completed in 1855. It cost Rs 1.75 crore in those days and seems to have paid the then government a return of 18%. It used to irrigate 7 lakh acres.[2] Later, the State Government constructed a bridge that was named after Tanguturi Prakasam, the first Chief Minister of Andhra (a state formed in 1953, which later became Andhra Pradesh in 1956 after the merger of Telugu speaking districts of former Hyderabad State). Completed in 1957, it helps to irrigate over 1.2 million acres of land. This barrage also supplies water to Buckingham canal which was initially constructed as an inland navigation canal but was later used as an irrigation water supply canal. One of the first major irrigation projects of South India, the Prakasam Barrage in Vijayawada was completely successful in its mission."
Flora and fauna
"The Talakona waterfall is in Sri Venkateswara National Park, Chittoor District of Andhra pradesh in India. With a 270 feet (82 m)-fall, Talakona is the highest waterfall in the Andhra pradesh state.[1] Talakona is also known for the Lord Siddheswara Swamy Temple, which is located close to the waterfall."
"Talakona is located in Nerabailu village in Yerravaripalem Mandal of Chittoor District.[2] It is located 49 kilometres (30 mi) from Pileru, 58 kilometres (36 mi) from Tirupathi, 127 kilometres (79 mi) from Vellore, 220 kilometres (140 mi) from Chennai, and 105 kilometres (65 mi) from Chittoor and 250 kilometres (160 mi) from Bangalore."
"Talakona means head hill in Telugu (tala - head and kona - hill). However, Thalakona allegorically means “the head of the Seshachalam hills” as these mountains are believed to be the starting point of the Tirumala mountain ranges.[2]"
"The Talakona forests host rare and endangered species of animals like Slender Loris, Indian Giant Squirrel, Mouse Deer, Golden Gecko, Panther, Porcupine, Chital and Sambar. Endemic species like Red Sander, Cycas beddomeii and Enteda like giant plants are also found in this region. The forest is mostly covered with sandalwood trees with some medicinal plants."
"The waters of Talakona are enriched with herbs and people believe that it has healing properties. (Pictures of Butterflies & Wild Flowers of Talakona forest). A long and treacherous trekking route leads to the top of the hill, which can be reached by multiple paths. Talakona hills geographically is considered a part of the Eastern Ghats."
Talakona
"Simhachalam Temple Simhachalam Temple Simhachalam Temple Location in Andhra Pradesh Geography Coordinates 17°45′59″N 83°15′02″E﻿ / ﻿17.7664°N 83.2505°E﻿ / 17.7664; 83.2505Coordinates: 17°45′59″N 83°15′02″E﻿ / ﻿17.7664°N 83.2505°E﻿ / 17.7664; 83.2505 Country India State/province Andhra Pradesh District Visakapatnam Locale Visakhapatnam Culture Primary deity Vishnu, Narasimha Architecture Architectural styles Kalinga Architecture, South Indian History and governance Website http://simhachalamdevasthanam.net/"
"Simhadri or Simhachalam is a Hindu temple located in Visakhapatnam city suburb of Simhachalam in Andhra Pradesh, India. It is dedicated to Lord Narasimha (the man-lion), an incarnation (avatar) of Lord Vishnu. The central shrine was built in Kalinga architectural style."
"""Simha"" in Sanskrit means lion; ""Adri"" or ""Achala"" in Sanskrit means hill. The temple is located at the top of a hill; hence the temple is called Simhachalam. Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy, the lion-man incarnation of Lord Vishnu, is the presiding deity of the temple. The temple is one of the eighteen ""Narasimha Kshetras"", the shrines of Lord Narasimha, in India. The deity is usually covered with sandalwood paste year round and can be seen without sandalwood (""nijaroopa darshan"" – holy appearance in true form) for only 12 hours per year.[1] On Akshaya Tritiya Day, the deity is re-covered with sandalwood paste. The festival of 'Chandana yatra' or 'Chandanotsavam' falls every year in Vaisakha (May)."
"The deity is in the tribhangi posture, with two hands and the head of a lion on a human torso. An inscription dated 1098 AD of the Chola King Kuloththunga provides a clue as to its antiquity. Another inscription names a queen of the Eastern Ganga of Kalinga (ancient Odisha) (1137–1156), while a third inscription says the eastern Ganga King of Odisha, Narasimhadeva II (1279–1306), built the central shrine in 1267. More than 252 inscriptions in Odia and Telugu describe the antecedents of the temple."
Simhachalam Temple
Dasara festivities of Devasthanam
Goddess legend
Kanaka Durga Temple Kanaka Durga Temple Kanaka Durga Temple Location in Andhra Pradesh Geography Coordinates 16°31′8.50″N 80°37′17.38″E﻿ / ﻿16.5190278°N 80.6214944°E﻿ / 16.5190278; 80.6214944Coordinates: 16°31′8.50″N 80°37′17.38″E﻿ / ﻿16.5190278°N 80.6214944°E﻿ / 16.5190278; 80.6214944 Country India State/province Andhra Pradesh Locale Vijayawada Culture Primary deity Kanaka Durga Architecture Architectural styles Dravidian History and governance Website Kanaka Durga Temple website
"Kanaka Durga Temple is a famous hindu Temple of Goddess Durga located in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. The temple is located on the Indrakeeladri hill, on the banks of Krishna River. Kaalika puraana, Durgaa sapthashati and other vedic literature have mentioned about Goddess Kanaka Durga on the Indrakeelaadri and have described the deity as Swayambhu, (self-manifested) in Triteeya kalpa.[1]"
"According to a legend, the now verdant Vijayawada was once a rocky region strewn with hills that obstructed the flow of River Krishna. The land was thus rendered unfit for habitation or cultivation. Invocation to Lord Shiva for his intervention directed the hills to make way for the river. And the river started flowing unimpeded with all its might, through the tunnels or ""Bejjam"" bored into the hills by Lord Shiva. That is how the place got its name Bezawada."
Durga Temple-Vijayawada
"Located in the heart of Vijayawada city, the temple is just a 10 minutes drive from the railway station and Bus stand and about 20 km from airport. Temple buses are available at bus stand and railway station for every 20 minutes.Vijayawada is located 275 kilometers from Hyderabad. It is well connected by road, rail and air from all parts of the country."
"Sri Kanaka Durga Devi, the chief deity of the temple is portrayed as blessing the visiting devotees in various forms (avatars) during the ten-day festival. A symbolic representation of the 10 forms of triumph of good over evil, this form (known as 'Alankaram') of the day is chosen as per the astrological star of each day, in accordance with the lunar calendar. This year, the devotees are being blessed according to the following schedule of Alankarams:"
"The Rama Krishna Mission Beach is one of the most popular beach parks in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. It gets its name from the Ramakrishna Mission ashrama across the Beach Road from the park. The beach is best known for the INS Kursura Submarine Museum, which preserves the Kalvari class submarine.[1]"
"The Rama Krishna Beach, or RK Beach as it is commonly called, is one of the best known beaches and tourist spots in Vizag, attracting a large number of visitors. Swimming, sunbathing and beach volleyball are popular activities on the beach. An aquarium, the Kali temple, Visakha Museum, roadside restaurants offering seafood are other attractions.[2]"
"The best known attraction is the INS Kursura Submarine Museum, which preserves the eponymous submarine for public display and access on the beach."
Image Gallery
Suryalanka Beach is located 8 km from Bapatla in Guntur District of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.
APTDC Cottages at Suryalanka Beach
Suryalanka Beach
"A Annavaram అన్నవరం village of historical importance Annavaram Temple A Annavaram Show map of Andhra Pradesh A Annavaram Show map of India Location in Andhra Pradesh, India Coordinates: 17°16′55.16″N 82°24′19.89″E﻿ / ﻿17.2819889°N 82.4055250°E﻿ / 17.2819889; 82.4055250Coordinates: 17°16′55.16″N 82°24′19.89″E﻿ / ﻿17.2819889°N 82.4055250°E﻿ / 17.2819889; 82.4055250 Country India State Andhra Pradesh Region Coastal Andhra District East Godavari Population (2011)[1]  • Total 6,865 Languages  • Official Telugu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 533406 [Annavaram Shankavaram(mandal) at East Godavari District] Telephone code 08868 Vehicle registration AP-05 Nearest city Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada Website annavaramdevasthanam.nic.in"
Annavaram is a village situated on the banks of the pampa river in the East Godavari district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.[2]
"Anna translates to ""what you desire"", while ""varam"" means boon or godsend. Hence, the name Annavaram is an expression of the belief that the deity will endow one with whatever one desires."
The most distinctive feature of Annavaram is the shrine to Lord Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy situated upon the Ratnagiri Hills. The land is considered to belong to both Lord Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swami Temple and Goddess Anantalaxmi Satyavathi Ammavaru.[3]
National Highway 5 passes through Annavaram. The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation operates bus services from Annavaram bus station.[4] Annavaram railway station is located at the main Howrah-Chennai main line. It is classified as a B–category station in the Vijayawada railway division of South Central Railway zone.[5]
"Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary IUCN category IV (habitat/species management area) View of a part of the Sanctuary Location of Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary in Andhra Pradesh, India. Location Andhra Pradesh, India Nearest city Chittor Coordinates 13°01′30″N 78°38′42″E﻿ / ﻿13.02500°N 78.64500°E﻿ / 13.02500; 78.64500Coordinates: 13°01′30″N 78°38′42″E﻿ / ﻿13.02500°N 78.64500°E﻿ / 13.02500; 78.64500[1] Area 357.6 km2 (88,400 acres) Established December 1990 Governing body Andhra Pradesh Forest Department"
"Kaundinya Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary and an elephant reserve situated in Andhra Pradesh, India.It is the only sanctuary in Andhra Pradesh with a population of Asian elephants, which migrated after 200 years from neighbouring regions.[2]"
"East Coast Railway Stadium is a cricket stadium in Bhubaneswar, Odisha. It hosts Ranji Trophy, and other matches.[1]"
Construction of the galleries and renovation of the stadium is under process to make it suitable for international cricket matches.
"The authorities have submitted an Rs 54-crore plan to the Ministry of Railways to upgrade the stadium, making it capable of holding international cricket matches. [2]"
The present stadium was built across an area of over 22 acres at a cost of Rs 6 crore. The stadium has four turfs for practice. The drainage system is one of the best in the state. The stadium hosted its first Ranji Trophy match in November 2008.
"The Kanchenjunga Stadium, also known as Kanchanjungha Krirangan, is a multi-purpose stadium in Siliguri, India.[3] It is mainly used for cricket and football matches. The stadium was built in 1980s and holds a capacity of 30,000,[1] Prayag United S.C. are the tenants."
"In January 2014, a plan to upgrade the stadium at a cost of Rs 1.7 crore was announced.[4]"
Ranji Trophy Cricket
The stadium has hosted 11 Ranji Trophy matches till date . The first ever Ranji Trophy played on this ground was between Bengal cricket team and Punjab cricket team in 2010.
"ACA International Cricket Stadium (or Andhra Cricket Association International Cricket Stadium) is a cricket stadium under construction in the town of Mangalagiri. It is situated in Guntur district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, nearly 15 mi (24 km) from Guntur and 10 mi (16 km) from Vijayawada.[1] Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy laid the foundation, with construction company IVRCL Limited winning the rights for the project, worth ₹51.04 crore (US$7.6 million).[2] It is owned by Andhra Cricket Association.and spread over an area of 24 acres (9.7 ha) with a seating capacity of 40,000[3]"
"VVS Laxman, the former Indian batsman hasinaugurated the Central Zone Academy of Andhra Cricket Association in June 2013.[4] The stadium will include a club house and an indoor cricket academy. The Board of Control for Cricket in India made Andhra Cricket Association as the headquarters of Indian women's cricket team.[1]"
"The following is a list of stadiums in India[1], ordered by capacity."
"# Stadium Capacity Game(s) City State Home Team 1 Greater Noida Cricket Stadium 1,00,000 Cricket Greater Noida Uttar Pradesh UPCA 2 Buddh International Circuit 1,00,000 Auto Racing Greater Noida Uttar Pradesh Formula One 10 Sardar Patel Stadium 1,00,000[2] Cricket Ahmedabad Gujarat Gujarat cricket team 3 Salt Lake Stadium 68,000[3] Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal Mohun Bagan AC, East Bengal Club, Mohammedan SC, Atlético de Kolkata, some Chirag United Sports Club matches 4 Eden Gardens 66,349[4] Cricket Kolkata West Bengal Bengal cricket team, Kolkata Knight Riders 5 Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 60,500 Cricket, football (soccer) Kochi Kerala India cricket team (1998–present) Chirag United Club Kerala (2011–12) Kerala Blasters FC (2014–present) 6 ACA Stadium 60,000 Cricket Guwahati Assam Assam cricket team 7 Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 60,000 football (soccer) Delhi Delhi NCR India football team (2011–present) Delhi Dynamos FC (2014–present) 8 DY Patil Stadium 55,000 Football Navi Mumbai Maharashtra Mumbai City FC 9 Trivandrum International Stadium 55,000 Sports complex Trivandrum Kerala Indian Premier League Indian Super League BCCI 11 EMS Stadium 53,000[5] Football (soccer) Kozhikode Kerala local football teams 12 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium 50,000[6] Cricket Ahmedabad Gujarat Gujarat cricket team 13 Indore Sports Complex 50,000 Sports complex Indore Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh cricket team Madhya Pradesh football team 14 Barkatullah University Stadium 50,000 Cricket Bhopal Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh cricket team 15 Lucknow International Cricket Stadium 50,000 Cricket Lucknow Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 16 Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh International Cricket Stadium 47,000 Cricket Raipur Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh cricket team 17 Barabati Stadium 45,000[7] Cricket Cuttack Orissa Odisha cricket team 18 Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium 45,000[8] Cricket Nagpur Maharashtra Vidarbha cricket team 19 KIIT Stadium 45,000[9] Cricket Bhubaneswar Orissa Odisha cricket team 21 East Coast Railway Stadium 42,000 Cricket Bhubaneswar Orissa Odisha cricket team 22 Feroz Shah Kotla 40,715[10] Cricket Delhi Delhi NCR Delhi cricket team, Delhi Daredevils 23 Chennai Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 40,000 Football (soccer) Chennai Tamil Nadu Indian Bank Recreational Club, Chennaiyin F.C. 24 International Sports Stadium, Saifai 40,000 Cricket, Athletics, Wrestling Saifai Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team, Saifai Sports College 25 Chandgi Ram Sports Complex 40,000 Hockey, Sports complex Saifai Uttar Pradesh Saifai Sports College, Uttar Pradesh Wizards 27 JRD Tata Sports Complex 40,000[11] Football (soccer) Jamshedpur Jharkhand local football teams 28 Patliputra Sports Complex 40,000 Football (soccer) Patna Bihar local football teams 29 Mangalagiri International Cricket Stadium 40,000 Cricket Mangalagiri Andhra Pradesh Andhra cricket team 30 New Bangalore Football Stadium 40,000 Football (soccer) Bangalore Karnataka Bengaluru FC 31 M. Chinnaswamy Stadium 40,000 Cricket Bangalore Karnataka Karnataka cricket team, Royal Challengers Bangalore 32 Captain Roop Singh Stadium 40,000[12] Cricket Gwalior Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh cricket team 33 JSCA International Cricket Stadium 39,000 Cricket Ranchi Jharkhand Jharkhand cricket team 34 M. A. Chidambaram Stadium 38,000 Cricket Chennai Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu cricket team, Chennai Super Kings 35 Dr. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium 38,000 Cricket Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh cricket team, Deccan Chargers 36 CB Patel International Cricket Stadium 35,000 Cricket Surat Gujarat Gujarat cricket team 37 Birsa Munda Athletics Stadium 35,000 Athletics Rachi Jharkhand 38 Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium 34,000[13] Cricket Gahunje, Pune district Maharashtra Pune Warriors India 39 Wankhede Stadium 33,108[14] Cricket Mumbai Maharashtra Mumbai cricket team, Mumbai Indians 40 Green Park Stadium 33,000[15] Cricket Kanpur Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team, Kanpur Cricket Association 41 Saurashtra Cricket Association Stadium 33,000 Cricket Rajkot Gujarat Saurashtra cricket team 42 Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 30,000 Cricket Coimbatore Tamil Nadu Coimbatore District cricket association 43 G. M. C. Balayogi Athletic Stadium 30,000[16] Athletics, Cricket Hyderabad Telangana Local cricket teams and athletics 26 Kanchenjunga Stadium 30,000[17] Football (soccer) Siliguri West Bengal local football teams 45 Khuman Lampak Main Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Imphal Manipur local football teams and athletics 46 Sawai Mansingh Stadium 30,000[18] Cricket Jaipur Rajasthan Rajasthan Royals, Rajasthan 47 Guru Nanak Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Ludhiana Punjab JCT FC 48 Maharaja Bir Bikram College Stadium 30,000 Cricket Agartala Tripura Tripura cricket team 49 Guru Gobind Singh Stadium 30,000 Cricket Nanded Maharastra 50 Barkatullah Khan Stadium 30,000[19] Cricket Jodhpur Rajasthan Rajasthan cricket team 51 Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium 30,000[20] Athletics, football (soccer) Guwahati Assam NorthEast United FC,local football teams and athletics 52 Dadaji Kondadev Stadium 30,000[21] Football (soccer) Thane Maharashtra local football teams 53 Holkar Cricket Stadium 30,000 Cricket Indore Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh cricket team 54 Indira Gandhi Stadium 30,000 Cricket Solapur Maharashtra 55 Khasbag Wrestling Stadium 30,000 Wrestling Kolhapur Maharashtra 56 International Hockey Stadium 30,000 Hockey Rajnandgaon Chhattisgarh 57 Sector 42 Stadium 30,000 Hockey Chandigarh Punjab Chandigarh Comets 58 War Heroes Stadium 30,000 Hockey Sangrur Punjab Sangrur hockey team 59 Baichung Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Namchi Sikkim 60 Faizabad Sports Complex 30,000 Sports complex Faizabad Uttar Pradesh TBA 61 Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium 30,000 Athletics, football (soccer) Kollam Kerala 62 Bakhshi Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir JK XI 63 Guru Gobind Singh Stadium 30,000 Cricket Nanded Maharashtra Maharashtra cricket team 64 Cooperage Football Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Mumbai Maharashtra Mumbai FC 65 Barasat Stadium 30,000 Football (soccer) Barast West Bengal 66 Malappuram District Sports Complex & Football Academy Stadium 28,000[22] Football (soccer) Malappuram Kerala Federation Cup 2014 venue, local football teams 20 Punjab Cricket Association IS Bindra Stadium 26,000[23] Cricket Mohali Punjab Punjab cricket team, Kings XI Punjab 67 HPCA Cricket Stadium 26,500 Cricket Dharamshala Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh cricket team 68 Nehru Stadium 25,000 Cricket Indore Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh 44 Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium 25,000[24] Cricket Hyderabad Telangana Hyderabad cricket team, Hyderabad Heroes, Andhra Pradesh cricket team 69 BHEL Stadium 25,000 Cricket Ranipur Uttarakhand 70 Moin-ul-Haq Stadium 25,000 Cricket Patna Bihar Bihar cricket team 71 Sector 16 Stadium 25,000 Cricket Chandigarh Chandigarh Punjab cricket team 72 Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 25,000 Cricket Pune Maharashtra local cricket teams 73 Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium 25,000 Sports complex Guwahati Assam multi-purpose stadium 74 NTR Stadium 25,000 Gudivada multi-purpose stadium 75 Mahabir Stadium 25,000 Sports complex Hisar Haryana multi-purpose stadium 76 Paljor Stadium 25,000 Football (soccer) Gangtok Sikkim United Sikkim F.C. 77 K. D. Singh Babu Stadium 25,000[25] Cricket Lucknow Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 78 Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium 25,000 Cricket Dehradun Uttarakhand Uttarakhand cricket team 79 Chandrasekharan Nair Stadium 25,000 Football (soccer) Thiruvananthapuram Kerala 80 Sree Kanteerava Stadium 24,000 Football (soccer) Bengaluru Karnataka Bengaluru FC 81 East Bengal Ground 23,500 Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal East Bengal 82 Mohun Bagan Ground 22,000 Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal Mohun Bagan 83 Guru Gobind Singh Stadium 22,000 Football (soccer) Jalandhar Punjab local football teams 84 Satindra Mohan Dev Stadium 22,000 Football (soccer) Silchar Assam local football team 85 The Arena 20,000[26] Football (soccer) Ahmedabad Gujarat 86 Mangala Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer) Mangalore Karnataka Mangalore United 87 Dhyan Chand National Stadium 20,000 Hockey Delhi Delhi International field hockey, Delhi Wizards 88 Gangotri Glades Cricket Ground 20,000 Cricket Mysore Karnataka Karnataka cricket team 89 Sector 42 Stadium 20,000 Hockey Chandigarh Chandigarh Chandigarh Comets 90 Rajiv Gandhi Stadium Mualpui 20,000 Athletics, football (soccer) Aizawl Mizoram athletics, local football team 91 Ambedkar Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer) Delhi India ONGC Football Club 92 Anna Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer), hockey Tiruchirappalli Tami Nadu 93 Brahmapur Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer), cricket Brahmapur Bihar 94 Chhatrapati Shivaji Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer), cricket Karad Maharastra 95 Indira Gandhi Stadium 20,000 Cricket Purnia Bihar 96 Lajwanti Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer) Hoshiarpur Punjab 97 TT Nagar Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer) Bhopal Madhya Pradesh 98 Visvesvaraya Stadium 20,000 Football (soccer) Mandya Karnataka 99 Dr. Akhilesh Das Stadium 20,000 Cricket Lucknow Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 100 Kailash Prakash Sports Stadium 20,000[27] Cricket Meerut Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 101 Veer Surendra Sai Stadium 20,000 Cricket Sambalpur Odisha Odisha cricket team 102 Keenan Stadium 19,000 Cricket Jamshedpur Jharkhand Jharkhand cricket team, Bihar cricket team 103 Fatorda Stadium 19,000 Football (soccer) Margao Goa Dempo Sports Club, Salgaocar Sports Club, Sporting Clube de Goa 104 Rabindra Sarobar Stadium 18,000 Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal Tollygunge Agragami 105 Moti Bagh Stadium 18,000 Cricket Baroda Gujarat Baroda cricket team 106 Chhatrasal Stadium 16,000 Sports complex Delhi NCR 107 Biju Patnaik Hockey Stadium 15,000 Sports complex Bhubaneswar Odisha Samaleswari Sports Club, Kalinga Lancers 108 IPCL Sports Complex Ground 15,000 Cricket Baroda Gujarat Baroda cricket team 109 Bangalore Football Stadium 15,000 Football (soccer) Bangalore Karnataka local football teams 110 Madhavrao Scindia Cricket Ground 15,000 Cricket Rajkot Gujarat Saurashtra cricket team 111 Ravi Shankar Shukla Stadium 15,000 Football (soccer) Jabalpur Madhya Pradesh local football teams 112 Indira Gandhi Arena 15,000 Sports complex Delhi NCR local football teams 113 Thrissur Municipal Corporation Stadium 15,000 Football (soccer) Thrissur Kerala local football team 114 Mohammedan Sporting Ground 15,000 Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal Mohammedan Sporting Club 115 Sher-i-Kashmir Stadium 15,000 Cricket Sri Nagar Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir cricket team 116 YS Raja Reddy Stadium 15,000 Cricket Kadapa Andhra Pradesh Andhra cricket team 117 Malkangiri Stadium 15,000 Cricket Malkangiri Odisha 118 Mulna Stadium 15,000 Cricket, football Balaghat Madhya Pradesh 119 Sumant Moolgaokar Stadium 15,000 Football Jamshedpur Jharkhand 120 Rajendra Stadium 15,000 Football Siwan Bihar 121 International Hockey Stadium 13,648 Hockey Ajitgarh Punjab Punjab Warriors 122 Jadavpur Stadium 12,000 Football (soccer) Kolkata West Bengal local football teams 123 Tilak Maidan Stadium 12,000 Football (soccer) Vasco da Gama Goa local football team 124 Tau Devi Lal Stadium 12,000 (Football), 7,000 (Cricket) Cricket, football (soccer) Gurgaon Haryana Haryana cricket team, Amity United Football Club 125 Netaji Indoor Stadium 12,000 Indoor sports Kolkata West Bengal Bengal Warriors 126 Bhausaheb Bandodkar Ground 10,000 Cricket Bhubaneswar Odisha Goa cricket team 127 Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium 10,000 Gymnastics Cuttack Odisha Odisha Olympic Association 128 Aishbagh Stadium 10,000 Hockey Bhopal Madhya Pradesh Bhopal Badshahs 129 Nagaland Cricket Association Stadium 10,000 Cricket Dimapur Nagaland Nagaland cricket team 130 MGR Race Course Stadium 10,000[28] Horse racing, Kabaddi Madurai Tamil Nadu Madurai District Sports association 131 Chaudhary Bansi Lal Cricket Stadium 10,000 Cricket Rohtak Haryana 132 Birsa Munda Football Stadium 10,000 Cricket Ranchi Jharkhand 133 Dhyan Chand Astroturf Stadium 10,000 Hockey Lucknow Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Wizards, Guru Gobind Singh Sports College 134 Dhruv Pandove Cricket Stadium 10,000 Cricket Patiala Punjab 135 Dr. Rajendra Prasad Football Stadium 10,000 Association football Neemuch Madhya Pradesh 136 Dr Sampurnanda Stadium 10,000 Cricket, field hockey, football Varanasi Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 137 Gandhi Ground 10,000 Multi-purpose Udaipur Rajastan 138 Guru Nanak Stadium 10,000 Field hockey Kapurthala Punjab 139 Fort Maidan 10,000 Football (soccer) Palakkad Kerala 140 Jorethang Ground 10,000 Football Jorethang Sikkim 141 Mela Ground 10,000 Football Kalimpong West Bengal 142 Sangamner Municipal Cricket Stadium 10,000 Cricket Sangamner Maharastra 143 Indira Gandhi Stadium 10,000 Cricket Una Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh cricket team 144 Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium 8,670 Hockey Chennai Tamil Nadu Chennai Cheetahs 145 Mahindra Hockey Stadium 8,000 Hockey Mumbai Maharashtra Mumbai Magicians, Mumbai Marines 146 Duler Stadium 8,000 Football (soccer) Mapusa Goa 147 Chaudhary Bansi Lal Cricket Stadium 8,000 Hockey Rohtak Haryana Haryana cricket team 148 Bangalore Hockey Stadium 7,000 Hockey Bangalore Karnataka Karnataka Lions 149 Surjit Hockey Stadium 7,000 Hockey Jalandhar Punjab Punjab Warriors 150 International Hockey Stadium 5,000 Hockey Kollam Kerala 151 Birsa Munda Hockey Stadium 5,000 Hockey Ranchi Jharkhand Ranchi Rhinos 152 B.P.T. Ground 5,000 Football Mumbai Maharashtra Bengal Mumbai FC 153 DRIEMS Ground 5,000 Cricket Cuttuck Odisha Odisha cricket team 154 Eklavya Sports Stadium 5,000 Cricket Agra Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh cricket team 155 Emerald High School Ground 5,000 Cricket Indore Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh cricket team 156 Fr. Agnel Stadium 5,000 Football Navi Mumbai Maharashtra Fr. Agnel Gymkhana, Mumbai City FC 157 Kalinga Stadium 5,000 Hockey Bhubaneswar Odisha Samaleswari Sports Club, Kalinga Lancers 158 Birsa Munda Hockey Stadium 5,000 Hockey Ranchi Jharkhand 159 Dilip Tirkey Stadium 5,000 Hockey Ranchi Jharkhand 160 PCMC Hockey Stadium 5,000 Hockey Pimpri-Chinchwad Maharashtra Pune Strykers 161 Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Indoor Stadium 4,000 Sports complex Taleigao Goa 162 Gachibowli Indoor Stadium 4,000 Sports complex Hyderabad Telangana 163 Talkatora Stadium 3,035 Sports complex Delhi NCR 164 Hawla Indoor Stadium 3,000 Basketball Aizawl Mizoram 165 Kalyani Stadium 3,000 football Kolkata West Bengal East Bengal F.C, United S.C, West Bengal football team, local football teams 166 Royal Calcutta Turf Club Horse racing Kolkata West Bengal 167 Kolkata Race Course Horse racing Kolkata West Bengal 168 Guindy Race Course Horse racing Chennai Tamil Nadu 169 Hyderabad Race Club Horse racing Hyderabad Telangana 170 Mahalaxmi Racecourse Horse racing Mumbai Maharashtra 171 Pune Race Course Horse racing Pune Maharashtra 172 Exhibition Ground Cricket Eluru Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh cricket team 173 Goa Cricket Association Academy Ground Cricket Porvorim Goa Goa cricket team 174 Hanuman Vyayam Prasarak Mandal Ground Cricket Amravati Vidarbha Vidarbha cricket team 175 Harbax Singh Stadium Cricket Delhi NCR Railways cricket team 176 Hisar Police Lines Golf Course Golf Hissar Haryana 177 Noida Sports Stadium N.A. Sports complex Noida Uttar Pradesh Multi-purpose stadium"
Baba Dhansar
"The holy place of Baba Dhansar is located at Karua Jheel (Pond) near village Karua, 17 km from Reasi towards Katra in Reasi district of Jammu & Kashmir State, India.[1] The approach involves a walk of 200 metres from the road. It is a mythological belief that when Lord Shiva went to the Amarnath cave to tell Parvati the story of his immortality, he left his serpent king, Sheshnag at Anantnag. Shesh Nag came in the human form as Vasudev. One of the sons of Vasudev was Dhansar who was a saintly person."
"As the local belief goes, in the ancient times there was a demon who lived near Karua Jheel(lake) and committed atrocities on the people of village Karua. The villagers sought help of Baba Dhansar to get rid of the Demon. It is believed that Baba Dhansar prayed to Lord Shiva for help. Lord Shiva arrived and helped in killing the Demon. The temple of Baba Dhansar and a cave of Lord Shiva near Karua Jheel has become a place of worship. Karua Jheel is considered sacred where bathing is not permitted. However, the devotees may take a bath downstream. People believe that their wishes are fulfilled if they take bath in the stream and pray with complete faith. A large number of devotees visit the place every year on the day of Mahashivratri when an annual fete (mela) is organized."
Photo gallery
Religious significance
"Gosaikunda Gosaikunda Lake Location Rasuwa district Coordinates 28°05′N 85°25′E﻿ / ﻿28.083°N 85.417°E﻿ / 28.083; 85.417Coordinates: 28°05′N 85°25′E﻿ / ﻿28.083°N 85.417°E﻿ / 28.083; 85.417 Primary inflows 35 l/s (460 imp gal/min) Primary outflows 60 l/s (790 imp gal/min) Basin countries Nepal Surface area 13.8 ha (34 acres) Water volume 1,472,000 m3 (52,000,000 cu ft) Surface elevation 4,380 m (14,370 ft)"
"Gosaikunda (गोसाइँकुण्ड), also spelled Gosainkunda and Gosain Kunda is an alpine freshwater oligotrophic lake in Nepal's Langtang National Park, located at an altitude of 4,380 m (14,370 ft) in the Rasuwa District with a surface of 13.8 ha (34 acres).[1] Together with associated lakes, the Gosaikunda Lake complex is 1,030 ha (4.0 sq mi) in size and has been designated a Ramsar site on 29 September 2007.[2]"
"The lake melts and sips down to form the Trishuli River and remains frozen for six months in winter October to June. There are 108 lakes in this area, small to medium in size. The challenging Lauribina La pass at an altitude of 4,610 m (15,120 ft) is on its outskirts."
"The Gosaikunda area has been delineated as a religious site. Hindu mythology attributes Gosaikunda as the abode of the Hindu deities Shiva and Gauri. The Hindu scriptures Bhagavata Purana, Vishnu Purana and the epics Ramayana and Mahabharata refer to Samudra manthan, which is directly related to the origin of Gosaikunda. Its waters are considered holy and of particular significance during the Gangadashahara and the Janai Purnima festivals when thousands of pilgrims from Nepal and India visit the area.[1] Gosaikunda is believed to have been created by Lord Shiva when he thrust his Trishul (holy Trident) into a mountain to extract water so that he could cool his stinging throat after he had swallowed poison.[3]"
Gosaikunda
"Mount Abu Wildlife Sanctuary Show map of Rajasthan Show map of India Location in India Location Rajasthan, India Nearest city Mount Abu Coordinates 24°33′0″N 72°38′0″E﻿ / ﻿24.55000°N 72.63333°E﻿ / 24.55000; 72.63333Coordinates: 24°33′0″N 72°38′0″E﻿ / ﻿24.55000°N 72.63333°E﻿ / 24.55000; 72.63333 Area 288 km². Established 1960 Visitors NA (in NA) Governing body Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India"
"Mount Abu Wildlife Sanctuary is located in one of the oldest mountain ranges of India, the Aravalli range. It was declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1980.[1]"
"It spreads out into a plateau which is about 19 km in length and 6 km in breadth. In altitude, it varies from 300 meters at the foot to 1722 meters at Guru Shikhar,[1] the highest peak in Rajasthan."
"It is very rich in floral bio-diversity starting from xenomorphic sub-tropical thorn forests in the foot hills to sub-tropical evergreen forests along PRIYEN water courses and valleys at higher altitudes. There are about 112 plant families with 449 genera and 820 species. Of these, 663 species are dicots while 157 species are monocots.[2] About 81 species of trees, 89 species of shrubs, 28 species of climbers and 17 species of tuberous plants of medicinal importance have been identified in this sanctuary.[3]"
Fauna
"A variety of fauna, including highly rare, threatened and endangered species are found in this sanctuary. The history of Mount Abu indicates the presence of lion (last recorded in 1872) and tiger (last reported in 1971). Presently the leopard is the apex predator. Other animals found here are sambhar, jungle cat, small Indian civet, wolf, hyaena, jackal, Indian fox, common langur, wild boar, bear, pangolin, common mongoose, Indian hare, porcupine and hedgehog. The sanctuary provides an ideal habitat for the sloth bear too.[1] It is unique in the sense that more than 250 species of birds are found here, but the speciality of the Abu sanctuary is the grey jungle fowl."
Features
"Idagunji ಇಡಗುಂಜಿ town Idagunji Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°21′N 74°42′E﻿ / ﻿14.35°N 74.7°E﻿ / 14.35; 74.7Coordinates: 14°21′N 74°42′E﻿ / ﻿14.35°N 74.7°E﻿ / 14.35; 74.7 Country  India State  Karnataka Region Kanara District Uttara Kannada Taluk Honnavar Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Idagunji (Kannada: ಇಡಗುಂಜಿ) is a small village in Honnavar Taluk, in the Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka state, India."
"Idugunji is close to Manki and about 14 km from Honnavar, in Honnavar Taluk; and 28 km from Navilgona."
"Idagunji Devasthana is an ancient temple with a history of more than 1,500 years."
The Ganesha temple receives more than 1 million devotees per year.
Idagunji Ganapati Idagunji Temple Website Karwar eNews
Economy
Pilgrimage center
"Alandi आळंदी Aalandi City Alandi Location in Maharashtra, India Coordinates: 18°40′37″N 73°53′48″E﻿ / ﻿18.677062°N 73.896600°E﻿ / 18.677062; 73.896600Coordinates: 18°40′37″N 73°53′48″E﻿ / ﻿18.677062°N 73.896600°E﻿ / 18.677062; 73.896600 Country  India State Maharashtra District Pune Elevation 577 m (1,893 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 28,576 Languages  • Official Marathi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 412105 412201"
"Alandi (Marathi: आळंदी) is a city and a municipal council in Pune district in the state of Maharashtra, India. The town is popular as a place of pilgrimage for being the resting place or (Samadhi) of the 13th century Marathi Bhakti saint, Sant Dnyaneshwar"
"Alandi (18°40′37.42″N 73°53′47.76″E﻿ / ﻿18.6770611°N 73.8966000°E﻿ / 18.6770611; 73.8966000[1]) is located on the banks of the Indrayani River, 25 km (16 mi) north of Pune, India. It has an average elevation of 577 metres (1,893 feet)."
"Saint Dnyaneshwar samādhi: Saint Dnyaneshwar, after translating the Bhagavad Gita into Marathi attained samādhi under the Siddheshwar temple in Alandi. A temple complex has been built at the spot of Sant Dnyaneshwar's samadhi. It is visited by hundreds thousands of pilgrims, and in particular, those of the Varkari Sect. The Ekadashi of the dark half of each month attracts a greater number of devotees to the town.[2]"
"In the Shaka month of Jeshtha (June- July), a procession that carries symbolic sandals of Dnyaneshwar on a Palkhi starts from Alandi to reach Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi. The procession is joined by tens of thousands of Varkari devotees for the 150 km journey on foot.[3]"
The biggest festival in Alandi is held every year on Kartika Vadya Ekadashi (eleventh day of the dark fortnight of Hindu month of Kartik). The festival falls close to the day Dnyaneshwar entered Samadhi. This festival or yatra is attended by hundreds of thousands of Dnyaneshwar devotees and has a great economic significance to the local population.
"The Indrayani River is a Perennial River and bathing in the river has special significance for pilgrims to Alandi. However, the river is heavily polluted because of sewage discharge by different towns along its course and has high amount of Faecal coliform in the water.[4]"
The places of interest to pilgrims in and around Alandi include:
"The Dnyaneshwar Samadhi Complex that includes the Samadhi and the Shri Sidheshwar temple The Ghats on banks of the Indrayani river; opposite bank of the main ghat is a newer ghat developed by Vishwa Sahanti trust Ram Mandir close to the banks of the Indrayani River, located south of the o Samadhi mandir, is one of the many large temples in Alandi Laxmi Narayan Mandir - is smaller, located Southeto Samadhi mandir, adjacent to Ram mandir, near to ghats Vitthala-Rakhumai Temple Dnyaneshwari Mandir - modern temple nearing completion, located little to the west of Dnyaneshwar Samadhi Complex Narsinha Sawaswati Math - is locate west of Dnyaneshwar Samadhi Complex en-route to Dnyaneshwari Mandir Shree Gajanan Maharaj Temple complex, Alandi – located south of Dnyaneshwar Samadhi Complex, nearing completion Dnyaneshwar's Wall - Legend says that when the formerly arrogant Sant Changdev came to visit Dnyaneshwar on a tiger, Dnyaneshwar and his siblings went to meet him riding on a wall that moved. Sant Jalaram Temple: This temple was built in 1960s built with the same architectural design as the one in Virpur Gujarat, which is very popular. There is also a temple of Santoshi Mata in the same complex."
Aalandi laxmi narayan mandir
"As of 2011 India census,[5] Alandi had a population of 28,576. Males constitute 56% of the population and females 44%. The lingua franca is Marathi. Alandi has an average literacy rate of 73%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 82% of the males and 68% of females literate. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age. All castes are represented in the town. The closely related Maratha clans, Kurhade-Patil and Ghundare-Patil dominate civic life of the town."
"Since Alandi is a major place of pilgrimage, the economy of the town revolves around that activity. Although the major festivals are held only twice a year, pilgrims from all over Maharashtra come to Alandi throughout the year. The different needs of the pilgrims are catered for by different groups of Brahmins who officiate at the samadhi, or weddings or at the religious services to the bereaved respectively. There are a large number of vendor outside the main temple complex that offer materials for worshipping at the samadhi such as garlands, turmeric etc. These vendors also do good business in religious Souvenirs and books. Most Marathi Hindu castes have built Dharmashalas (Pilgrim rest houses) that offer accommodation to pilgrims of their respective castes. The temple holds its biggest festival in the second half of the Shaka month of Kartik. This festival attracts hundreds of thousands of devotees to the town. It is also a great seasonal opportunity for the local population to earn extra income by offering accommodation and catering services to the visitors. The local Municipal council also collects pilgrim tax or Goods tax to pay for public health provision. The tax has generated resentment amongst the devotees in the past."
Basistha Ashram
"Basistha (Pron: bəˈsɪsθə) temple, located in the south-east corner of Guwahati city is a Shiva mandir constructed by Ahom King Rajeswar Singha in 1764[1] along with gift of land 835 Bighas for the ashram. The history of the Basistha Ashram where the temple is located dates back to the Vedic age. According to legend the ashram was founded by the great saint Basistha (Vasishtha)."
"This ashram is believed to be the home of famous sage Basistha, also known as ""Vasishtha"". The ashram is located a few kilometers (10-12) from Guwahati, on the outskirts of Garbhanga reserve forest which has an ample population of elephants. This Garbhanga reserve forest is also a proposed butterfly reserve. Although the ashram has a temple but still the cave in which the Muni Vasistha is believed to have meditated is located 5 km inside the ashram. The ashram also has a waterfall."
Basistha Temple
Devdeveshwar Temple
Official Website
The Renuka Devi Temple as a Shakti Peeth
Travel facilities and Pilgrimage Amenities
Mahur माहूर town Idol of Renuka goddess in Mahur Nickname(s): Mahurgad Mahur Location in Maharashtra Coordinates: 19°50′52″N 77°55′26″E﻿ / ﻿19.84778°N 77.92389°E﻿ / 19.84778; 77.92389Coordinates: 19°50′52″N 77°55′26″E﻿ / ﻿19.84778°N 77.92389°E﻿ / 19.84778; 77.92389 Country  India State Maharashtra District Nanded Demonym(s) Mahurkar Languages  • Official Marathi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration MH- Lok Sabha constituency Nanded Vidhan Sabha constituency Kinwat Civic agency mahur
"Mahur or Mahurgad is a town and religious place in Nanded district of Maharashtra, India.[1] Mahur is the birthplace of Hindu God Dattatreya.[2] Atri Rishi and Sati Anasuya lived here. Bramha, Vishnu and Shiva once got a news about Anasuya that there is no one more pious and pure as her. To test her piousness they arrived under the garb of asking Alm (bhiksha). When she brought it, they asked to serve them while being naked, she realised by her power that she is under a test. She made them a three headed child & fed them. This became Dattatreya, the unified God."
"There are three mountains in Mahur. The first one and most known is of Renuka Dewi, who is mother of the god Parshuram. Other two are called Datt Shikhar and Atri Anasuya Shikar. Mahur has a sacred temple to Renuka, which is considered one of the three and half Shakti Peethas (temples) in the state. A big fair is held here every year on the occasion of Vijayadashami."
"When Sahasrarjun attacked Renuka, while somewhere in today's Telangana, for he wanted to grab the Kamdhenu cow. When she refused to him that saying asking gift of your own choice by the guest visitor is uncalled. He attacked her & injured her. She dies in this & when Parshuram knew about it, he went berserk. Then the elderly people pacified him & asked him to do the last rites in Mahur under Dattatreya's guidance. Then he was told by him that she will appear on first mountain for you to worship. This became the Renuka temple. The matru tirth is the one which is where today stands a lake, is antyeshti sthan."
"Mahur finds mention in the ancient Devi Bhagawatam as ""Matripura"" or ""Matapur"", where it is mention as one of the famous pilgrimages.[3] In Devi Gita the final and most important chapter of the text, it is mentioned as one the important places of Shakti worship:"
"For Muslims it is famous for the Dargah of Baba SonaPir, who is also known as Mohar-e-Rasool (Stamp of Prophet). In every fifth of the month a Urs has been conducted in Dargaah. Many people come from different parts of country to celebrate this occasion."
"The temple is considered as a revered shrine for the Shaktism sect, because of the above told mythology and also because the Shrine is a Shakti Peetha. It is believed that Renuka, (the wife of Sage Jamadagni) was decapitated by her own son Parashurama and her head fell here. Renuka was later given rebirth as a boon by Sage Jamadagni to his son Parashurama. The temple is considered as a Shakti Peetha because of the mythology of Daksha yaga and Sati's self immolation.[5][6][7]"
"All three important temples — Renuka Temple, Dattatreya Temple and Anusaya Temple — are built on three mountain ranges. Mahur is surrounded by jungles rich with trees and wild life. There is teakwood trees everywhere. Peafowl, deer, black bears, panthers are very common in the jungle."
"Devdeveshwari mandir belongs to Mahanbhav Panth, basically called a nidra sthan (sleeping place) of Jagat Guru Shree Dattatreya Prabhu. It is at elevated outskirt of Mahur town, 2 km from Mahur bus stand."
"There are Maharashtra state transport buses that go from Nagpur, Amrawati, Akola, Nanded, Kinwat, Yavatmal and Pusad to Mahur. Although the District of mahur is Naded, for all practical purposes it is unwise to go to Nanded for going to Mahur. For people from Mumbai it is better to reach Shegaon ( a religious place for Gajanan Maharaj) by train & take a Bus or taxi from there. For Pune visitors, take a train Pune -Amravati & get down at Washim. From there its about 80 km by road (one can take a bus or taxi from Washim."
"Mukhalingam ముఖలింగం Srimukhalingam Village Srimukhalingam temple Mukhalingam Show map of Andhra Pradesh Mukhalingam Show map of India Location in Andhra Pradesh, India Coordinates: 18°36′00″N 83°58′00″E﻿ / ﻿18.6000°N 83.9667°E﻿ / 18.6000; 83.9667Coordinates: 18°36′00″N 83°58′00″E﻿ / ﻿18.6000°N 83.9667°E﻿ / 18.6000; 83.9667 Country  India State Andhra Pradesh District Srikakulam Talukas Jalumuru Population  • Total 3,204 Languages  • Official Telugu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 532 428 Vehicle registration AP"
"Mukhalingam is a village panchayat in Jalumuru mandal of Srikakulam district, Andhra Pradesh, India."
Mukhalingam is located at 18°35′39″N 83°57′49″E﻿ / ﻿18.5943°N 83.9635°E﻿ / 18.5943; 83.9635.[1] It has an average elevation of 28 metres (92 ft).
"According to the 2011 Census of India, the demographic details of Mukhalingam are as follows:[2]"
"The Srimukhalingeswara temple is a Shiva temple in the village, which was built by Kamarnava–II in 8th century AD of the Eastern Ganga dynasty.[3]"
Development
"Nature, flora and fauna"
Batu Caves பத்து மலை 黑風洞 Entrance to Batu Caves with the Murugan statue Batu Caves Location in Malaysia Name Proper name Batumalai Sri Muruga Perumaan Kovil Geography Coordinates 3°14′14.64″N 101°41′2.06″E﻿ / ﻿3.2374000°N 101.6839056°E﻿ / 3.2374000; 101.6839056Coordinates: 3°14′14.64″N 101°41′2.06″E﻿ / ﻿3.2374000°N 101.6839056°E﻿ / 3.2374000; 101.6839056 Country Malaysia State/province Selangor District Gombak Culture Primary deity Murugan Architecture Architectural styles Dravidian Architecture History and governance Date built 1891 Creator K. Thamboosamy Pillay Website www.batucaves.org
"Batu Caves is a limestone hill that has a series of caves and cave temples in Gombak, Selangor, Malaysia. It takes its name from the Sungai Batu (Batu River), which flows past the hill and also it is the tenth (Pattu in Tamil) limestone hill from Ampang. Batu Caves is also the name of a nearby village."
"The cave is one of the most popular Hindu shrines outside India, and is dedicated to Lord Murugan. It is the focal point of Hindu festival of Thaipusam in Malaysia."
"Batu Caves in short also referred as 10th Caves or Hill for Lord Muruga as there are six important holy shrines in India and four more in Malaysia. The three others in Malaysia are Kallumalai Temple in Ipoh, Tanneermalai Temple in Penang and Sannasimalai Temple in Malacca."
It is also near a town called Selayang where the famous and biggest wholesale market in Klang Valley located.
The limestone forming Batu Caves is said to be around 400 million years old. Some of the cave entrances were used as shelters by the indigenous Temuan people (a tribe of Orang Asli).
"Batu Caves was promoted as a place of worship by K. Thamboosamy Pillai, an Indian trader. He was inspired by the 'vel'-shaped entrance of the main cave and was inspired to dedicate a temple to Lord Murugan within the caves. In 1890, Pillai, who also founded the Sri Mahamariamman Temple, Kuala Lumpur, installed the murti (consecrated statue) of Sri Murugan Swami in what is today known as the Temple Cave. Since 1892, the Thaipusam festival in the Tamil month of Thai (which falls in late January/early February) has been celebrated there."
"Wooden steps up to the Temple Cave were built in 1920 and have since been replaced by 272 concrete steps. Of the various cave temples that comprise the site, the largest and best known is the Temple Cave, so named because it houses several Hindu shrines beneath its high vaulted ceiling."
"Batu Malai Sri Murugan Temple is managed by the Board of Management of Sri Maha Mariamman Temple Devasthanam, which also manages the Sri Mahamariamman Temple, Kuala Lumpur and the Kortumalai Pillaiyar Temple. It also performs the role of Hindu Religious Consultant to the Government of Malaysia in determining the Hindu yearly calendar."
"There are various undeveloped caves which contain a diverse range of cave fauna, including some unique species, such as Liphistiidae spiders and Eonycteris and fruit bats. The site is also well known for its numerous macaques, which visitors feed — sometimes involuntarily. These monkeys may also pose a biting hazard to tourists (especially small children) as they can be quite territorial."
"Batu Caves is also the centre of rock climbing development in Malaysia for the past 10 years. Batu Caves offers more than 160 climbing routes.[1] The routes are scattered all around the side of Batu Caves, which is made up of limestone hills rising to 150 m. These climbing routes are easily accessed, as most crags start from ground level. These climbing routes often start from the North Eastern side of the cave complex whereas the staircase and temple entrance faces South. This North eastern area is known as the Damai caves. Abseiling and spelunking trips can be organised with some local adventure companies. One of the companies offering such a service is Oxbold. The usual package includes:[2]"
"Housing development began since 1970 with housing estates such as Taman Batu Caves, Taman Selayang, Taman Amaniah, Taman Sri Selayang, and Taman Medan Batu Caves."
"In the last decade, the surrounding area has changed from a small village to industrial estates and new housing and shops. There is also an elevated flyover over the highway. A new 515-million-ringgit KTM Komuter rail extension from Sentul to Batu Caves began operations in July 2010, serving the rebuilt Batu Caves Komuter station."
"Batu Caves is easily reached by commuter train at Batu Caves Komuter station, costing RM 3.6 for a one-way journey from KL Sentral. Batu Caves may also be reached by bus 11/11d from Bangkok Bank Terminus (Near to Puduraya Terminus) or bus U6 from Titiwangsa.Batu Caves is also easily reached by travelling in car."
"Pancha Bhoota Stalam or Pancha Bhoota Stala (Tamil: பஞ்ச பூதத்தலம், Telugu: పంచ భూతస్థలం, Sanskrit: पन्च भूत स्थल) refers to the five Shiva temples,[1] dedicated to Shiva, each representing the manifestation of the five prime elements of nature- land, water, air, sky, fire.[2] Pancha indicates Five, Bhoota means elements and Stala means place. All these temples are located in South India with four of these temples in Tamil Nadu and one in present-day Andhra Pradesh. The five elements are believed to be enshrined in the five lingams[1] and each of the lingams representing Shiva in the temple have five distinct names based on the elements they represent."
Pancha Bhootam
"According to Hinduism, life and the various species originated by the combination of planetary globes and the five manifestations of nature namely air, water, fire, land and sky. Bhoota(Sanskrit:भूत) in Sanskrit means compound and maha bhoota indicates a big compound.[3] According to Ayurveda, an ancient Indian medical system, the equilibrium of the body with the pancha bhoota is governed by the principles of tridoshas -kaph(phlegm), pitta(bile), vayu(gas), dhātu and malas(waste products).[4] Rabindranath Tagore, a nobel lauerate for literature, in his poem, Pancha bhoota, has explained the emotional faculty of the human mind is keenly sensitive to all objects of light, colour, sound, effect of speed, sun, moon and stars.[5]"
The Five Temples
"In Tiruvannamalai temple, Shiva is said to have manifested himself in the form of massive column of fire, whose crown and feet could not be found by the Hindu God of creation, Brahma and Hindu God of preservation (or maintainer) Vishnu. A celebration of this manifestation is seen even today in the age old traditions observed during the festivals of Sivarathri and Karthigai Deepam. Agni Lingam explains the mythics of life - duty, virtue, self-sacrifice and finally liberation by and through ascetic life -duty, virtue, self-sacrifice and finally liberation by and through ascetic life at the end of Agni kalpa.[6]"
"In Thiruvanaikaval temple, Shiva represents water element where the appu lingam is submerged in water[1] and a perennial sub terrain spring gushes around the lingam.[7]"
"In Chidambaram, empty space is worshiped as Shiva (akasha lingam) to signify God is beyond human comprehension. It is unusual where there is no physical stone lingam present, unlike other temples of Shiva.[8]"
"Category Lingam Temple Location Coordinates Earth Prithivi Lingam[9] Ekambareswarar Temple [10][11] Kanchipuram 12.847604, 79.699798 Water Appu Lingam (Jambu Lingam)[1] Jambukeshwarar Temple, Thiruvanaikaval[10] Thiruvanaikaval, near Trichy 10.853383, 78.705455 Fire Agni Lingam (Jyothi Lingam)[6] Arunachaleswara Temple[10] Thiruvannamalai 12.231942, 79.067694 Air Vayu Lingam Sri Kalahastheeswara Temple[10][12] Kalahasthi, Andhra Pradesh 13.749802, 79.698410 Space Aagaya Lingam (Akasha Lingam)[8] Thillai Natarajar Temple[10] Chidambaram 11.399596, 79.693559"
Festivals
Religious importance
Sub-Shrines
"Kapila Theertham Kapila Theertham Location in Andhra Pradesh Name Proper name Sri Kapileswara Swamy temple[1] Telugu alphabet శ్రీ కపిలేశ్వర స్వామి వారి ఆలయం Geography Coordinates 13°40′59.7″N 79°20′49.9″E﻿ / ﻿13.683250°N 79.347194°E﻿ / 13.683250; 79.347194Coordinates: 13°40′59.7″N 79°20′49.9″E﻿ / ﻿13.683250°N 79.347194°E﻿ / 13.683250; 79.347194 Country India State/province Andhra Pradesh District Chittoor Locale Tirupati Culture Primary deity Siva as Kapileswara Important festivals Maha Shivaratri, Karthika Deepam, Kapileswara Swamy Brahmotsavams Architecture Architectural styles Dravidian architecture Number of temples 9 Inscriptions Sanskrit and Dravidian languages History and governance Date established Unknown Date built Unknown Temple board Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Website tirupati.org"
"Kapila Theertham is a famous Saivite Temple and Theertham, located at Tirupati in the Chittoor District of Andhra Pradesh, India. The idol is believed to be installed by Kapila Muni and hence Lord Siva here is referred to as Kapileswara."
"The temple stands at the entrance to a mountain cave in one of the steep and vertical faces at the foot of the Tirumala hills which are part of Seshachalam Hills, where the waters of the mountain stream fall directly into Temple Pushkarini known as ""Kapila Theertham"". A huge stone statue of a seated bull ""Nandhi"", Lord's Shiva's steed, greets devotees and passersby at the entrance to the temple."
The Temple and Theertham had derived its name from Kapila Muni.[1]
"According to Temple Legend Kapila Muni had performed penance to Lord Siva at this place and blissed with the Muni's devotion, Lord Siva and Parvathi presented themselves.[1] The Lingam is believed to be self-manifested.[1] Kapila muni is believed to emerged from the Bilam(Cavity) in the Pushkarini(Theertham) on to the earth.[1]"
"Though this temple's significance has diminished due to the hugely popular neighboring Temples in Tirumala and Tiruchanoor, it received very good patronage from the Kings of Vijayanagara in the 13th thru 16th centuries, especially Saluva Narasimha Deva Raya, and the eternally famous Sri Krishna Deva Raya, and some of the later rulers like Venkatapathi Raya, and Aliya Ramaraya, Sri Krishna Deva Raya's Son-in-law."
"The present day temple is under the administration of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD).[2] Under TTD this temple receives continued protection and sustainance, annual festivals that are celebrated great splendour.[2]"
"During 'Kartika' month on the occasion of its ""mukkoti"" on the 'Purnima' (full moon) day, all the teerthas situated in the three world's merge into this Kapila Teertham at noon for ten 'Ghatikas'(one ghatika is equivalent to 24 minutes).[1] It is believed that persons bathing in it at that auspicious time will attain salvation from the cycle of birth and death ('Brahmaloka'). Moreover, those who have never offered Pindam (thidhi or thadhhina) to their departed ancestor souls can do it here and wash off your sins for non performance of it in past."
"The temple celebrates all important festivals of Shaivism which includes Maha Shivaratri, Karthika Deepam, Vinayaka Chavithi, Adikirtika etc. Kapileswara Swamy Brahmotsavams is the biggest event of the temple celebrated by TTD during the month of February.[3] It is a nine-day event where the processional deity of Lord Shiva and Parvathi will taken procession on different vahanams starting with Hamsa vahanam and ending with Trishula snanam(celestial bath to Siva Trident).[3][4]"
"There are many sub-shrines with-in the main temple premises. Temples for Kamakshi-concert of Shiva, Vinayaka, Subhramanya, Agasthesswara, Rukmini Satyabhama Sametha Sri Krishna are few among them."
Facilities
"Guru Gobind Singh Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Jalandhar, India. It is currently used for football matches and is the home stadium of JCT Mills Football Club. The stadium holds 22,000 people.[2]"
"The stadium is used by the locals of Jalandhar city most of time for the purpose of staying fit. People can be seen jogging, playing soccer, weight-lifting, etc. in the stadium most of the time. It opens at 5:00 a.m. in the morning and closes at 10:00 p.m. at night. Events like Kabbadi, live music shows, award ceremonies etc are organized at this stadium as well."
The stadium has been installed with floodlights to allow people enjoy the facilities of the stadium even at night. The stadium has an average sized parking lot on each side for the people coming to it.
"Fully equipped Floodlights Dressing rooms, Referees’ Changing Rooms, Administration Rooms VIP/Guest Lounge Media Room with facilities for print, radio, live TV broadcast etc., Conference & meeting room Medical room Spectator facilities Adequate area/space for Vehicle parking"
"Jongsong Peak is a mountain in the Janak section of the Himalayas.[2] At 7,462 metres (24,482 ft) it is the 57th highest peak in the world, although it is dominated by 3rd highest, Kangchenjunga, 20 km (12 mi) to the south. Jongsong's summit is on tri-junction of India, Nepal and China.[3]"
"From its first ascent in 1930 by members of German expedition led by Gunther Dyhrenfurth[4] until the first ascent of Kamet on 21 June 1931, Jongsong was the highest climbed peak in the world. The first ascent team of Jongsong peak had included several members who were also members of the International mountaineering organisation Himalayan Club."
"On 30 September 2012, a team from the Kolkata section of the Himalayan Club (Pradeep Sahoo (Leader) with Ang Dorji Sherpa and Phurba Sherpa), ascended the Jongsong peak's east summit (named Domo by Dyhrenfurth) on a new route via the eastern ridge of the Jongsong peak from a col between the Jongsong massif and an adjoining peak called Dome Kang. The previous day, another team from the same expedition scaled Dome Kang (Rajib Mondal and Dawa Sherpa) from the common col along its east face (New route first ascent / second ascent overall). They had approached the mountains from the Jongsong glacier, Sikkim."
"Bhavnagar Amreli Forest is a reserved area for conservation of Asiatic lions. The new location is east side of Gir National Park in Amreli district of Gujarat. After inclusion of New Jesal sanctuary the area of this forest will go to 1600 km2 which is bigger than Gir sanctuary.[1] The Gujarat state government insisted on shifting the lions to this forest claiming that lions were pride of Gujarat. However the central government is pressuring Gujarat state government to shift some lions in Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary. There are almost 110 lions outside the protected area in Gir forest. A pride of about 20 lions will be introduce in three different area in this forest. A large number of lions have been wiped out of Tanzania's Serengeti National Park. To prevent this from happing at Gir forest, Gujarat state government has proposed this habitat. [2]"
Distribution of Asiatic lions according to 2010 census: [3]
District Male Female Cubs Total Amreli 28 40 40 108 Bhavnagar 11 11 11 33 Junagarh 58 111 101 270 Total 97 162 152 411
According to above table 141 lions live in Bhavnagar and Amreli districts.
Fauna
Flora
Tourism attractions
"Nameri National Park IUCN category II (national park) Nameri National Park Location Sonitpur Assam India Nearest city Tezpur, India Coordinates 27°0′36″N 92°47′24″E﻿ / ﻿27.01000°N 92.79000°E﻿ / 27.01000; 92.79000Coordinates: 27°0′36″N 92°47′24″E﻿ / ﻿27.01000°N 92.79000°E﻿ / 27.01000; 92.79000 Area 200 km2 (77.2 sq mi) Established 1978 Governing body Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India"
"Nameri National Park is a national park in the foothills of the eastern Himalayas in the Sonitpur District of Assam, India, about 35 km from Tezpur. Nameri is about 9 km from Chariduar, the nearest village.[1]"
Nameri shares its northern boundary with the Pakhui Wildlife Sanctuary of Arunachal Pradesh. Together they constitute an area of over 1000 km2 of which Nameri has a total area of 200  km2.[2]
The park was declared a reserve forest on 17 October 1978. It was set up as a Nameri Sanctuary on 18 September 1985 with an area of137 km2 as a part of Naduar Forest Reserve. Until then the Nameri National Park was heavily used for logging. Another 75  km2 was added on 15 November 1998 when it was officially established as a National Park.
The Jia Bhoroli river of Assam was famous since the time of British for the golden mahseer angling.[3]
Ibisbill in Nameri National Park
"The vegetation type of nameri is of semi-evergreen, moist deciduous forests with cane and bamboo brakes and narrow strips of open grassland along rivers. The forests are rich in epiphytes, lianas, and creepers and clump-forming bamboo.[2]"
Nameri National Park-Kangkan Hazarika
"This is excellent elephant country and was considered to be an elephant reserve. It is an ideal habitat for a host of other animals including the tiger, leopard, sambar, dhole (the Asiatic wild dog), pygmy hog, Indian wild bison, clouded leopard, leopard cat, muntjac, gaur, wild boar, sloth bear, Himalayan black bear, capped langur and Indian giant squirrel."
Wild Elephant at nameri National Park
"Nameri is a birdwatcher's paradise with over 300 species. The white winged wood duck, great pied hornbill, wreathed hornbill, rufous necked hornbill, black stork, ibisbill, blue-bearded bee-eaters, babblers, plovers and many other birds make Nameri their home.[4]"
"Angling at Nameri: This park is full of rivers. Fishing is the famous activity which is held by forest department. The golden mahseer fish is famous in these region where they grown to 3-9 feet. They are known as ""tigers of the Himalayan rivers"". Angling has been suspended by local park authority under the Wildlife Protection Act as this habitat is now a Save the Tiger Project site. Nameri River Rafting is held at southeast of the park on river Jia Bharali. The rafting is up to 13 km around 3 hours. Nameri Wildlife Trekking is an amazing experience in these park. An armed forest department worker guides the trekking."
"Paniya பணிய Native to India Region Kerala State Native speakers 94,000 (2003)[1] Language family Dravidian Southern Tamil–Kannada Tamil–Kodagu Tamil–Malayalam Malayalam Paniya Language codes ISO 639-3 pcg Glottolog pani1256[2]"
"Paniya is one of the Dravidian languages of India. It is spoken by the Paniya people, a scheduled tribe with a majority of its speakers in the state of Kerala. The language is also known as Pania, Paniyan and Panyah. It belongs to the Dravidian family of languages.[3] According to the 1981 Census, there were 63,827 speakers of Paniya which includes 56,952 in Kerala, 6,393 in Tamil Nadu, 482 in Karnataka.[4] Most of its speakers are found in the Wayanad, Kozhikode, Kannur and Malappuram districts of Kerala, and to the west of the Nilgiri Hills in Tamil Nadu."
Other external links
"Ananthagiri Hills are hills located at [1] Vikarabad, Ranga Reddy district, TG, India.[2][3][4] The water flows from these hills to Osmansagar and Himayathsagar."
"It is one of the dense forests in Telangana Ananthagiri Temple is located in this forested area. It is the Birthplace of Musi river, which flows through Hyderabad. It is 5 km from Vikarabad"
"It is one of the earlist habitat areas. Ancient caves, medieval fort structures and temple shows the antiquity of this area."
Musi River
Main article: Musi River also known as Muchukunda River used to originate in Anantagiri Hills 90 kilometers to the west of Hyderabad and flowed due east for almost all of its course. It joins the Krishna River at Vadapally in Nalgonda district after covering a total distance of about 240 km.[5]
Tourist attractions near Ananthagiri Hills
Anantha Padmanabha Swamy Temple[6]
"This temple is located in Ananthagiri hills, about 75 kilometers from Hyderabad built by Nizam nawabs , Lord Vishnu is in the form of Sri Anantha Padmanabha Swamy and Ananthagiri is named after him."
Ananthagiri Hills
History
"Borra Caves బొర్రా గుహలు (Borra Guhalu) Borra Caves Location in Andhra Pradesh, India Coordinates: 18°10′N 83°0′E﻿ / ﻿18.167°N 83.000°E﻿ / 18.167; 83.000Coordinates: 18°10′N 83°0′E﻿ / ﻿18.167°N 83.000°E﻿ / 18.167; 83.000 Country India State Andhra Pradesh District Visakhapatnam Area  • Land 0.8 sq mi (2 km2) Elevation 2,313 ft (705 m) Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Located in Borra village in the Ananthagiri hills of Eastern Ghats"
"The Borra Caves, also called Borra Guhalu in Telugu language (Borra means something that has bored into the ground and guhalu means caves), are located on the East Coast of India, in the Ananthagiri hills of the Araku Valley (with hill ranges' elevation varying from 800 to 1,300 m [2,600 to 4,300 ft]) of the Visakhapatnam district in Andhra Pradesh. The caves, one of the largest in the country, at an elevation of about 705 m (2,313 ft), distinctly exhibit a variety of speleothems ranging in size and irregularly shaped stalactites and stalagmites.[1][2] The caves are basically karstic limestone structures extending to a depth of 80 m (260 ft), and are considered the deepest caves in India.[3][4]"
"In 1807, William King of the Geological Survey of India discovered the caves.[5]"
"On the discovery of the caves, there are several legends, which the tribals (Jatapu, Porja, Kondadora, Nookadora, valmiki etc.[4]) who inhabit the villages around the caves narrate. The popular legend is that a cow, grazing on the top of the caves, dropped 60 m (200 ft) through a hole in the roof. The cowherd while searching for the cow came across the caves. He found a stone inside the cave that resembled a Lingam, which he interpreted as the Lord Shiva who protected the cow. The village folk who heard the story believed it and since then they have built a small temple for Lord Shiva outside the cave. People flock to the temple for worship and the cave to get a glimpse of the Lingam.[5]"
Worship of Stalagmite Lingam inside the Borra Caves
Construction and architecture
Specialty
"Shahi Jamia Masjid شاہی جامہ مسجد शाही जामिया मस्जिद షాహీ జామియా మసీదు Shown within Andhra Pradesh Basic information Geographic coordinates 15°37′32″N 77°16′20″E﻿ / ﻿15.625556°N 77.272222°E﻿ / 15.625556; 77.272222Coordinates: 15°37′32″N 77°16′20″E﻿ / ﻿15.625556°N 77.272222°E﻿ / 15.625556; 77.272222 Affiliation Islam District Kurnool Territory Adoni Province Andhra Pradesh Country India Architectural description Architect(s) Malli Sandal Architectural type Mosque Architectural style Islamic Funded by Siddi Masood Khan[1] Completed 1662 (1662) Construction cost 2,000,000 dinars + ₹77,000 Specifications Capacity 1,000 Dome(s) 2 Site area 10 acres (4.0 ha) Materials Granite"
"The Shahi Jamia Masjid (Urdu: شاہی جامہ مسجد‎, Hindi: शाही जामिया मस्जिद, Telugu: షాహీ జామియా మసీదు) is in Adoni, India. The masjid is a relic of architectural and cultural heritage. People from all sections of society and religions are allowed to visit and take pictures of this historical premises.[2][3] It lies in the heart of the town, near Market a very busy place of Adoni.[4]"
"It is believed that this masjid was built by Siddi Masood Khan who was the Governor of Adoni during the regime of Bijapur Sultan's. The land was purchased from Mohammed Shahnaz Namia by Masood Khan by giving ₹77,000 and spent the total amount of 2,000,000 dinars to complete the construction of the masjid. The architects for this masjid were Iranian engineers headed by Malli Sandal."
"The specialty of this masjid is that the area of this masjid is as same as of the Kaaba in Mecca, Saudi Arabia."
Shahi Jamia Mosque
Also visit
Galageshwar temple
Inscriptions
"Galaganath ಗಳಗನಾಥ town Galaganath Show map of Karnataka Galaganath Show map of India Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°55′10″N 75°40′52″E﻿ / ﻿14.91944°N 75.68111°E﻿ / 14.91944; 75.68111Coordinates: 14°55′10″N 75°40′52″E﻿ / ﻿14.91944°N 75.68111°E﻿ / 14.91944; 75.68111 Country  India State Karnataka District Haveri Taluk Haveri Lok Sabha Constituency Haveri Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA-27 Nearest city Ranebennur Website karnataka.gov.in"
"Galaganath is a small village located near Haveri, in the Haveri District, Karnataka. Located here is the famous Galageshwar Shiva Temple[1] built during the rule of the Western Chalukyas. This large temple faces east and is situated along the Tungabhadra River. The rivers Tunga and Varada join at Galaganath."
"Galaganath was formerly known as Palluni. The Galageshwar temple,[2] an example of the Chalukya style of architecture, was built here around the 11th century. Sri Venkatesh Galaganath (Kadambari Pitamaha) worshiped at the Galageshwar temple, and he wrote his novels on the temple premises."
The temple faces to east and it is situated along the Tungabhadra river. the temple consists of a huge Shiva Linga in a closed hall; it is called Sparsha linga.[3] The temple has an unusual pyramidal basement and a large open hall. The Gopura (tower) is decorated with plain architectural elements while the wall panels of the back of the hall have some fine decorations. The interior has numerous niches containing figural sculpture including Ganesha.
A large inscription slab in the open hall of Galageshwar temple dates from AD 1080 and records a grant to the God Galageshwar. The date gives an indication of the era when the temple was built.
"The inscription here informs about the prevalence of the tradition of dance and music. The high state of development which the art of music had reached in the 11th century A.D. can be gathered from an inscription of Chalukya king Vikramaditya from Galaganath,[4] Haveri Taluk and Haveri District, North Karnataka, which mentions a certain Mokhari Barmmayya, a musician of high order, titled Battisaraga-bahu-kala-Brahma meaning skilled in 32 ragas."
Galaganatha
Jain temple at the fort
Tarakeshwara Temple
"Hanagal ಹಾನಗಲ್ Hangal town Hangal Tarakeshwara temple Nickname(s): Panagal Hanagal Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°46′01″N 75°07′34″E﻿ / ﻿14.767°N 75.126°E﻿ / 14.767; 75.126Coordinates: 14°46′01″N 75°07′34″E﻿ / ﻿14.767°N 75.126°E﻿ / 14.767; 75.126 Country  India State Karnataka District Haveri Lok Sabha Constituency Haveri Elevation 555 m (1,821 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 28,159 Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 581 104 Telephone code 08379 ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA-27 Website www.hanagaltown.gov.in"
""
""
""
""
Golden age
Kedaresvara temple
"Balligavi village Kedareshvara temple at Balligavi Balligavi Show map of Karnataka Balligavi Show map of India Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°23′38″N 75°14′38″E﻿ / ﻿14.3939°N 75.2439°E﻿ / 14.3939; 75.2439Coordinates: 14°23′38″N 75°14′38″E﻿ / ﻿14.3939°N 75.2439°E﻿ / 14.3939; 75.2439 Country  India State Karnataka District Shivamogga District Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Balligavi (Kannada: ಬಳ್ಳಿಗಾವಿ) a town in Shikaripura taluk Shivamogga district of Karnataka state, India, is today known as Belagami or Balagame. Its ancient names are Dakshina Kedara,Valliggame and Valligrame. Dakshina Kedara means Kedarnath of the South. A place of antiquity, it is known for its ancient monuments. It is also famous as the birthplace of the great Virashaiva saint Allama Prabhu[1] and is closely associated with Vachana poet Akka Mahadevi who was born in nearby Udugani.[2] She was a contemporary of Allama Prabhu and Basavanna, the founder of the Virashaiva movement. Balligavi is also the birthplace of Shantala Devi, queen of Hoysala king Vishnuvardhana.[3] Many famous Hoysala sculptors like Dasoja, Malloja, Nadoja, Siddoja hailed from here. Today, Balligavi (Balli in Kannada means creeper or vine) is a quite town much of whose daily routines revolve around agriculture and the famous 11th century Kedaresvara Temple and Tripurantakesvara Temple. Balligavi is located 72 km from Shivamogga city and 21 km from Shikaripura town and 2.3 KM from Shiralakoppa in Shikaripura taluk."
"Legend has it that Balligavi was the capital of an Asura king (demon) and hence was called Balipura (city of Bali). The Pandavas came here while on their Vanavasa (forest sojourn) and installed the Panchalinga (five lingas); hence the name Panchalingeswara to the well known temple here. Linga is the universal symbol of Shiva. Archaeologically, Balligavi dates from the Satavahana-Kadamba era and the Chaturmukha linga (four faced linga) here is in that style. The earliest inscription mentioning the name Balligavi is a 685 CE Badami Chalukya inscription.[4]"
"The golden age of Balligavi was during the rule of the Western Chalukya Empire during the 10th-12th centuries.[4] Balligavi during these times had six mathas, three puras ""extensions"", five vidyapithas ""places of learning"", and seven Brahmapuris. The mathas belonged to Shaivas, Vaishnavas, Jainas and Buddhists. The Kedareshwara matha belonging to the Kalamukha Shaivas and the Kodiya matha was well known and had the patronage of the Hoysala emperors, marking the place as one of religious activity. Records also indicate that an ancient University existed here.[3] The town also had 54 temples and supported 60,000 residents during that time.[4] Earlier to the Chalukyas, the area came under the Banavasi province of the Kadamba Dynasty. Important Kadamba inscriptions like the Talagunda inscriptions, near Balligavi have been collected by the Archaeological Survey of India.[5]"
History of Akki Alur
"Akki Alur ಅಕ್ಕಿ ಆಲೂರು town Ishwar temple, Akki Alur Akki Alur Show map of Karnataka Akki Alur Show map of India Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°43′44″N 75°10′12″E﻿ / ﻿14.7290000°N 75.169960°E﻿ / 14.7290000; 75.169960Coordinates: 14°43′44″N 75°10′12″E﻿ / ﻿14.7290000°N 75.169960°E﻿ / 14.7290000; 75.169960 Country  India State Karnataka District Haveri Taluk Hangal Population (2011)  • Total 12,294 Languages  • Official Kannada AND URDU Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 581102 Vehicle registration KA-27 Nearest city Haveri, Hubli This page maintained by: Pradeep Savanur"
"Akki Alur is a village in the southern state of Karnataka, India.[1][2] It is located in the Hangal taluk of Haveri district in Karnataka."
"Akki Alur is a large village located in Hangal of Haveri district, Karnataka with total 2565 families residing. The Akki Alur village has population of 12294 of which 6217 are males while 6077 are females as per Population Census 2011."
"The Akki Alur hoard is one of the most significant discoveries of Byzantine solidi on Indian soil. Unearthed by accident in March 1977 in a field near the village of Akki Alur in Karnataka, the hoard contained forty six gold coins in an earthenware pot. Of these, forty three have been identified as Byzantine solidi. Thereafter, however, the mystery of the hoard begins. The analysis here is a reflection of both the importance and the difficulty of synthesizing earlier data (published and unpublished) where artifacts are no longer accessible. It also illustrates one of the perennial problems in the broad field of ‘Indo-Roman’ studies: a plethora of published material, which confuses as much as it elucidates.1 Often this literature revisits the same artifacts and texts since the corpus of finds is now growing at a moderate pace, rather than refining and enhancing interpretation of long-distance trade and contact. It also frequently replicates old errors, or deepens existing confusion. This is partly a symptom of the different interests of scholars (in particular, ‘pure’ numismatists, and those with a broader interest in economic history), but it is also a product of the very uneven quality of scholarship which the material has received."
Akki Alur
Geography
Hindustani music and Kundgol
"Kundgol ಕುಂದಗೋಳ Kundagola city Shambhulinga temple at Kundgol Kundgol Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 15°15′N 75°15′E﻿ / ﻿15.25°N 75.25°E﻿ / 15.25; 75.25Coordinates: 15°15′N 75°15′E﻿ / ﻿15.25°N 75.25°E﻿ / 15.25; 75.25 Country  India State Karnataka District Dharwad Elevation 615 m (2,018 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 16,837 Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA-25 ,KA-63 Website www.kundagoltown.gov.in"
Kundgol also spelled as Kundagola is a panchayat town in Dharwad district in the Indian state of Karnataka.
Kundgol is Located in Dharwad District of Karnataka is about 14 km south-west of Hubli and 32 km south-west of Dharwad.
Kundagol also comes under the core area of Western Chalukya Empire. The existence of 11th century Shri Shambhulingeshwara temple supports this claim.
"Prior to 1948, Kundgol was a non-contiguous part of the princely state of Jamkhandi."
"Rambhau Kundgolkar, popularly known as Sawai Gandharva, was born here in 1886."
"To cater to the needs of cultural activities the Dharwad city boasts of an opera house Savai Gandharava Natyagraha [3] named after the great Hindustani Musician Savai Gandharva the native of Kundgol town near Hubli, on the Hubli - Bangalore rail line. The great celebrity in Hindustani music of the modern times. Dr. Smt. Gangubai Hangal also hails from this place and a resident of Hubli."
Shambhulinga Temple[5][6][7]
Kundgol is located at 15°15′N 75°15′E﻿ / ﻿15.25°N 75.25°E﻿ / 15.25; 75.25.[10] It has an average elevation of 615 metres (2017 feet).
"As of 2001 India census,[11] Kundgol had a population of 16,837. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Kundgol has an average literacy rate of 64%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 73%, and female literacy is 54%. In Kundgol, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Kaitabheshvara Temple Hindu temple Kaitabheshvara temple (1100 AD) at Kubatur in Shimoga district Kaitabheshvara Temple Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°33′53″N 75°09′08″E﻿ / ﻿14.5648100°N 75.1523400°E﻿ / 14.5648100; 75.1523400Coordinates: 14°33′53″N 75°09′08″E﻿ / ﻿14.5648100°N 75.1523400°E﻿ / 14.5648100; 75.1523400 Country  India State Karnataka District Shimoga District Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"The Kaitabheshvara temple (also spelt Kaitabhesvara or Kaitabheshwara, known also as Kotisvara) is located in the town of Kubatur (also spelt Kubattur or Kuppattur, and called Kuntalanagara or Kotipura in ancient inscriptions), near Anavatti in the Shimoga district of Karnataka state, India. The temple was constructed during the reign of Hoysala King Vinayaditya around 1100 AD. The Hoysala ruling family was during this time a powerful feudatory of the imperial Western Chalukya Empire ruled by King Vikramaditya VI.[1][2][3][4] According to the Archaeological Survey of India, the architectural signature of the temple is mainly ""Chalukyan"".[1] Art historian Adam Hardy classifies the style involved in the construction of the temple as ""Later Chalukya, non mainstream, far end of spectrum"". The building material used is soapstone[5] The temple is protected as a monument of national importance by the Archaeological Survey of India.[6]"
"Kaitabheshvara Temple, Kubatur"
Five Unique Temples of Dilwara
"Dilwara Jain Temples Dilwara Jain Temples Location within Rajasthan Basic information Location Mount Abu, Sirohi, Rajasthan, India Geographic coordinates 24°36′33.5″N 72°43′23″E﻿ / ﻿24.609306°N 72.72306°E﻿ / 24.609306; 72.72306Coordinates: 24°36′33.5″N 72°43′23″E﻿ / ﻿24.609306°N 72.72306°E﻿ / 24.609306; 72.72306 Affiliation Jainism Festivals Mahavir Jayanti, Paryushan Architectural description Creator Vastapul-Tejpal Completed between the 11th and 13th centuries AD Temple(s) 5"
"The Dilwara temples of India are located about 2½ kilometres from Mount Abu, Rajasthan's only hill station. These Jain temples were built by Vastapul Tejpal , a Jain laymen[1][2] between the 11th and 13th centuries AD and are world-famous for their stunning use of marble. The five legendary marble temples of Dilwara are a sacred pilgrimage place of the Jains. Some consider them to be one of the most beautiful Jain pilgrimage sites in the world. The marble temples have an opulent entranceway, the simplicity in architecture reflecting Jain values like honesty and frugality. The temples are in the midst of a range of forested hills. A high wall shrouds the temple complex."
"Although the Jains built some beautiful temples at other places in Rajasthan, some believe that none come close to these in terms of architectural perfection. The ornamental detail spreading over the minutely carved ceilings, doorways, pillars and panels is simply marvellous."
"There are five temples in all, each with its own unique identity. Each is named after the small village in which it is located. These are:"
Dilwara Temples
Introduction
The Mukteshwar Temple
"Chaudayyadanapur Chaudadanapur town Chaudayyadanapur Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°46′01″N 75°37′34″E﻿ / ﻿14.767°N 75.626°E﻿ / 14.767; 75.626Coordinates: 14°46′01″N 75°37′34″E﻿ / ﻿14.767°N 75.626°E﻿ / 14.767; 75.626 Country  India State Karnataka District Haveri Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA-27 Nearest city Ranebennur Website karnataka.gov.in"
"Chaudayyadanapur is a small village in Ranebennur taluk of Haveri District in Karnataka state of India. All facets of Indian civilisation (religion, art and poetry) are exemplified in an exquisite Mukteshwara temple,[1] with the highest degree of refinement."
Northern Karnataka is one of the richest areas of India in monuments of great artistic value. It was the time of the greatest expansion of the Kalamukha Lakulasaiva movements and of the rise of Virashaivism.
"Shivapur, the old name of Chaudadanapur (Chaudayyadanapur) saint, a 12th-century social reformer Basaveshwar, donated this village to Ambigara Chaudayya (a boatman).[2] So the name is Chaudayyadanapur or Chaudadanapur."
The temple of Mukteshwar at Chaudayyadanapur in Ranebennur Taluk is a beautiful representative of the style and the high culture of that time.[3]
"Chaudayyadanapur Mukteshwar temple, Haveri District, Karnataka"
"Seven inscriptions at Chaudayyadanapur Mukteshwar temple, Haveri District, Karnataka"
"Narasimha temple Narasapur near Chaudayyadanapur, en route to Guttal, Haveri District, Karnataka"
There is a need of immediate conservation and testoration for the Narasimha temple Narasapur.
Chaudayyadanapura
Bankapur Fort
Introduction
Nagareshwar temple
The peacock sanctuary
"Bankapura ಬಂಕಾಪುರ city Bankapura Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 14°55′00″N 75°16′00″E﻿ / ﻿14.9167°N 75.2667°E﻿ / 14.9167; 75.2667Coordinates: 14°55′00″N 75°16′00″E﻿ / ﻿14.9167°N 75.2667°E﻿ / 14.9167; 75.2667 Country  India State Karnataka District Haveri Area  • Total 8 km2 (3 sq mi) Elevation 578 m (1,896 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 20,264  • Density 2,533/km2 (6,560/sq mi) Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 581 202 Telephone code 08378 ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA Website karnataka.gov.in"
"Bankapura is a panchayat town in Haveri district in the state of Karnataka, India. It is in Shiggaon taluk, is just 2.5 km from the Pune-Bangalore national highway NH4, 22 km from Haveri town. Bankapura is about 45 km from Hubli-Dharwad. An historical site, Bankapura is famous for the Nagareshwara temple, Bankapura fort, The Bankapura Peacock Sanctuary. Baada, the birthplace of Kanaka Dasa is near to Bankapura."
"There are more than 50 popular archaeological monuments in Haveri District like Siddeshwar temple Haveri and Galaganatheswar temple Galaganatha in Haveri taluk, Shiva temple in Chaudayyadanapura of Ranebennur, Tarakeshwar temple at Hangal."
"Under the Chalukyas, many beautiful temples were built here, but during the invasion of Ali Adilshahi in about 1567 most of the temples were destroyed. A fort, now in ruins, at Bankapura houses the Ranganatha Nagareshwara temple, which has 66 pillars carved out of grey stone. There is also a beautiful mosque in the fort. The place is of historical significance to Jains. Adipuran, a Jain religious text was composed here. Bankapura fort (454 AD), was ruled by Kadamba of Banavasi, Gangas, Cholas, Rashtrakutas, Hoysalas, Chalukyas, Kings of Vijayanagar, Adilshahi of Bijapur, Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan. During the 9th century, Bankapura was named after Bankeyarasa (in 898 CE) who was a feudatory of Rashtrakuta king Amoghavarsha I. In the 11th century the Kadambas took over, followed by the Hoysalas king Vishnuvardhana."
"In the 16th century, the Bahamanis attacked Bankapur and Mustapha Khan of Bijapur annexed the fortress after a pitched battle for more than a year. The Nawabs of Savanur and the Marathas ruled for a short duration before Hyder Ali and Tipu took possession. Later, Bankapura was ceded to the British.[1]"
"Inside the ruined Bankapura fort, conquered by the Bahamanis, there is a temple built by the Chalukyas known as Aravattu Kambada Gudi. Bankapura is an important historical place where many battles were fought by a succession of rulers. In spite of the vandalism the ornate Nagareshwara temple was subjected to, it still retains its beauty."
"As of 2001 India census,[3] Bankapura had a population of 20,264. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Bankapur has an average literacy rate of 59%, lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 58% of the males and 42% of females literate. 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Bicholim Industrial Estate
Mayem Lake
"Bicholim दिवचल or डिचोली Arvalem Caves Show map of Goa Show map of India Location in Goa, India Coordinates: 15°36′N 73°57′E﻿ / ﻿15.60°N 73.95°E﻿ / 15.60; 73.95Coordinates: 15°36′N 73°57′E﻿ / ﻿15.60°N 73.95°E﻿ / 15.60; 73.95 Country  India State Goa District North Goa Elevation 22 m (72 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 14,913 Languages  • Official Konkani Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration GA Website goa.gov.in"
"Bicholim, pronounced ([ɖicoːlĩː]) is a city and a municipal council in North Goa district in the state of Goa, India. It is a town in the territory of Goa, and the headquarters of the concelho (district) of the same name; the Concelho of Bicholim, located in the north-east quarter is one of the seven that make up the Novas Conquistas or New Conquests, territories added to Goa comparatively latter than the first three of the Velhas Conquistas. The town is located about 30 kilometres from the capital Panjim. It is in the mining heartland of Goa."
"A part of Bicholim was once part of Kingdom of Sawantwadi till late 18th century, but the major part was of an independent Warlord (PrabhuDesai's of Sankhali/Sanquelim) It was taken over by Portuguese in late 18th century as part of New Conquest."
Bicholim is located at 15°36′N 73°57′E﻿ / ﻿15.60°N 73.95°E﻿ / 15.60; 73.95.[1] It has an average elevation of 22 metres (72 feet).
"As of 2011 India census,[2] Bicholim had a population of 16,986. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Bicholim has an average literacy rate of 82%. 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Mining constitutes a major chunk in the economy of Bicholim with about 36% of the population working for a single iron ore mine owner, formerly Souza Mineralia Pvt. Ltd. owned by M.M.P. DeSouza who formed a partnership with the Dempos, the Dempo clan took over the mines underhandedly and it is now taken over by Sesa Goa which has been merged into Vedanta Resources of Anil Agarwal."
"Bicholim has an idyllic landscape dotted with serene lakes and majestic waterfalls. The tranquil Mayem Lake is a major tourism destination in Bicholim. Located amidst rolling hills and surrounded by a countryside, the lake is one of the most pristine nature spots in Goa. The Goa Tourism Development Department has developed a boating area and a resort here."
"Set up by the Goa Industrial Development Department, the Bicholim Industrial Estate located on the banks of Mandovi tributary is home to more than 50 industrial workshops and manufacturing units specializing in a range of products and services such as Pottery, aluminium and steel fabrication, plastics, mining equipment, rolling mills, bus body, etc."
There are remains of Ancient Jain temples in Gujirwada in Cudnem village. Broken idols of Tirthankara were discovered during an excavation in 1986 by the directorate of archeology and archives. The Jain temple of Cudnem was constructed in the 10th century and was in ruins in the 15th century.[4]
"The idols of Tirthankara were also found in Chandreshwar temple in Kothambi village, situated on the right bank of the River Mandovi.[4]"
Places of interest
"Baghmara city Nickname(s): Pitcher Plant Town Baghmara Show map of Meghalaya Baghmara Show map of India Location of Baghmara in Meghalaya Coordinates: 25°11′37″N 90°38′05″E﻿ / ﻿25.193491°N 90.634631°E﻿ / 25.193491; 90.634631Coordinates: 25°11′37″N 90°38′05″E﻿ / ﻿25.193491°N 90.634631°E﻿ / 25.193491; 90.634631 Country India State Meghalaya District South Garo Hills Population (2001)  • Total 8,643 Languages  • Official Garo, Atong and English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration ML Climate Am"
""
""
""
""
""
Annual Celebrations
Connectivity
Geography and Climate
"Tura Town Tura Show map of Meghalaya Tura Show map of India Location in Meghalaya, India Coordinates: 25°31′N 90°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.52°N 90.22°E﻿ / 25.52; 90.22Coordinates: 25°31′N 90°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.52°N 90.22°E﻿ / 25.52; 90.22 Country  India State Meghalaya District West Garo Hills Autonomous Regions of India GHADC Elevation 349 m (1,145 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 74,858 Languages  • Local Garo  • Official Garo and English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Telephone code 03651 Vehicle registration ML 08 Climate Cwa"
"Tura (IPA: ˈtʊərə) is a hilly town and a municipality in West Garo Hills district in the Indian state of Meghalaya. One of the largest towns in Meghalaya, Tura is a valley located at the foothills of the Tura Hills and right below the Tura Peak. The climate in Tura is moderate throughout the year and has a large number of interesting and unexplored areas. The native god Durama was believed to reside in the hills. The name Tura is said to be a corruption (by the British) of the god's name."
"It is 220 kilometres from the nearest city Guwahati and is also the district capital of the West Garo Hills district. It is filled with small rivulets and green valleys all around. The principal languages are Garo and English. The city has 4 colleges and a host of good secondary schools. In 1973, the town was made the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Tura."
"The capital city of Shillong is 323 kilometres away and can be accessed via buses or the shuttle helicopter service. The border of Bangladesh Dalu, is situated at a proximity of 50 kilometres."
Tura is located at 25°31′N 90°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.52°N 90.22°E﻿ / 25.52; 90.22.[1] It has an average elevation of 349 metres (1145 feet).
"Garo tribe make up the majority of tuna population. As of 2011 India census,[3] Tura had a population of 58,391. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Tura has an average literacy rate of 7%, higher than the national average of 56%: male literacy is 70%, and female literacy is 67%. In Tura, 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Tura is situated in the western part of meghalaya which is quite close to the National Border of Bangladesh. Main mode of transport is by road, there are no railways or any scheduled flights from Tura airport. From Guwahati, it is 221 km, through the National Highway 51. Day time Sumo and overnight bus services are available form Guwahati. There is a 3-days-a-week helicopter service available from Guwahati and Shillong, run by Pawan Hans."
"1. Wangala : It is a traditional Garo dance; celebrated after harvesting. Wangala is best showcased at the 100 Drums festival which takes place annually, 30 km away from Tura in a place called, Asanang. The men and women are dressed in traditional attire and they dance to beat of the 100 drums."
"Nongpoh city Nongpoh Show map of Meghalaya Nongpoh Show map of India Location of Nongpoh in Meghalaya Coordinates: 25°54′N 91°53′E﻿ / ﻿25.9°N 91.88°E﻿ / 25.9; 91.88Coordinates: 25°54′N 91°53′E﻿ / ﻿25.9°N 91.88°E﻿ / 25.9; 91.88 Country  India State Meghalaya District Ri Bhoi Elevation 485 m (1,591 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 13,165 Languages  • Official English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration ML Climate Cwa"
"Nongpoh {IPA: nɒŋˈpɒ(ə)} is the administrative centre of Ri-Bhoi district in the State of Meghalaya in the Republic of India. Nongpoh is located on National Highway 40, fifty-two kilometers from the state capital Shillong and forty-eight kilometers from Guwahati in the State of Assam."
"Nongpoh is located at 25°54′N 91°53′E﻿ / ﻿25.9°N 91.88°E﻿ / 25.9; 91.88.[1] It has an average elevation of 485 metres (1591 feet). Because of its proximity to the Brahmaputra plains, the weather during summer months tends to be humid and hot while the winter months are pleasant and warm. Fruits such as pineapples, bananas, papayas and litchi are cultivated extensively throughout the Ri-Bhoi district. Betel leaf and nut trees are visible while traveling the roads that connect Nongpoh with Guwahati."
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Nongpoh had a population of 13,165. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Nongpoh has an average literacy rate of 61%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 63%, and female literacy is 59%. In Nongpoh, 21% of the population is under 6."
Nongpoh
Ecological Effect
Tourist Destination
Toxic Threat and Silting
Umiam Lake Location Meghalaya Coordinates 25°39′12″N 91°53′03″E﻿ / ﻿25.6532°N 91.8843°E﻿ / 25.6532; 91.8843Coordinates: 25°39′12″N 91°53′03″E﻿ / ﻿25.6532°N 91.8843°E﻿ / 25.6532; 91.8843 Type Reservoir Catchment area 220 sq Km Basin countries India Settlements Shillong
"Umiam Lake ( commonly known as barapani lake ) is a reservoir located in the hills 15 km to the North of Shillong in the state of Meghalaya, India. It was created by damming the Umiam river in the early 1960s. The principal catchment area of the lake and dam is spread over 220 square km."
"Umiam Dam, which impounds the lake, was built by the Assam State Electricity Board in the early 1960s. The dam's original purpose was to store water for hydroelectric power generation. The Umiam Stage I powerhouse, located north of the lake, has four 9-MW turbine-generators, which entered commercial operation in 1965. Umiam Stage I was the first reservoir-storage hydroelectric project commissioned in the northeastern region of India. (Umtru Hydroelectric Project, a run-of-river project with an original capacity of 8.4 MW, began operation in 1957.) Three more stages of the Umiam Project were subsequently built downstream.[1]"
"The lake serves as a major tourist attraction for the state of Meghalaya. It is also a popular destination for water sport and adventure facilities. Tourists visit this spot for kayaking, water cycling, scooting and boating."
"Apart from storing water for electricity generation, the lake also provides numerous ecosystem services at micro, meso and macro levels. Downstream irrigation, fisheries and drinking water cater to local anthropogenic needs."
"Due to the rising population of Shillong which is situated upstream of the lake, the lake is starting to become highly polluted. Also, there is the heavy problem of silting. An estimated 40,000 cubic metres of silt enter Umiam Lake every year. Causes range between upstream encroachments, deforestation, blockage of natural drainage systems and unscientific mining et al. in the catchment area. Excessive silt load in the lake has lowered the storage."
Krem Liat Prah is the longest natural cave in India.
"Liat Prah (Krem is the Khasi word for ""cave"") is one of approximately 150 known caves in the Shnongrim Ridge of the East Jaintia Hills district in the state of Meghalaya, northeast India. Explored and surveyed as part of the ongoing Abode of the Clouds Expedition project, its current length of about 34 kilometers will likely be increased as nearby caves continue to be connected. Liat Prah's dominant feature is its enormous trunk passage, the Aircraft Hangar."
2014 suicide attack
2016 Indo-Pakistani tensions
Overview
"Wagah Border Ceremony वागह सीमा समारोह واہگہ بورڈر کروسِنگ ਵਗਾਹ ਬੋਰਡਰ ਨੀ Wagah is located on the international highway between Amritsar, India and Lahore, Pakistan. Genre Military display Dates Every day Years active 59 (since 1959) Founded Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers"
"The lowering of the flags ceremony at the Wagah border near Hussainiwala National Martyrs Memorial, is a daily military practice that the security forces of India (Border Security Force) and Pakistan (Pakistan Rangers) have jointly followed since 1959.[1] The drill is characterized by elaborate and rapid dance-like maneuvers, which has been described as ""colourful"".[1] It is alternatively a symbol of the two countries' rivalry, as well as brotherhood and cooperation between the two nations. One leader, however, described it as ""ugly"" and ""vulgar"".[2]"
"This ceremony takes place every evening before sunset at the Wagah border, which as part of the Grand Trunk Road was the only road link between these two countries before the opening of the Aman Setu in Kashmir in 1999. The ceremony starts with a blustering parade by the soldiers from both the sides, and ends up in the perfectly coordinated lowering of the two nations' flags.[3] It is called the ""beating retreat"" border ceremony on the international level. One infantryman stands at attention on each side of the gate. As the sun sets, the iron gates at the border are opened and the two flags are lowered simultaneously. The flags are folded and the ceremony ends with a retreat that involves a brusque handshake between soldiers from either side, followed by the closing of the gates again. The spectacle of the ceremony attracts many visitors from both sides of the border, as well as international tourists.[3] In October 2010, Major General Yaqub Ali Khan of the Pakistan Rangers decided that the aggressive aspect of the ceremonial theatrics should be toned down.[1][4]"
"On 2 November 2014, approximately 60 people were killed and at least 110 people were injured in a suicide attack on the Pakistan side of the Wagah border. An 18- to 20-year-old attacker detonated a 5 kg explosive in his vest 500 metres from the crossing point in the evening right after the Wagah border ceremony ended.[5][6]"
"After the India–Pakistan military confrontation on 29 September 2016 the border closing ceremony continued, but on the Indian side public attendance was denied on the evenings between 29.09.2016 and 08.10.2016.[7] As a sign of the increased tensions, the BSF did not exchange sweets and greetings with Pakistani Rangers on Diwali 2016, despite of a yearlong tradition to do so on major religious festivals like the Eid and Diwali, and also during Independence Days of both countries.[8]"
Agharia is a Hindu caste from India.
"The Agharias are found predominantly in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Chhota Nagpur regions. In Odisha, they were traditionally agriculturalists, although now they hold other jobs.[1]"
"The Agharias of Odisha claim Rajput descent. According to this theory, the name of the community is derived from Agra, from where their Rajput ancestors migrated to other places.[1] Aghariyas are mainly Patel, Naik and choudhary. They are divided in 84 Gotra. They are dominant in Raigarh, Bilaspur, Mahasmund and Janjgir Champa districts of Chhattisgarh."
Nimadi Native to India Region Nimar in Madhya Pradesh Native speakers 2.2 million (2001 census)[1] Census results conflate some speakers with Hindi.[2] Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan Western Rajasthani–Marwari Rajasthani Nimadi Language codes ISO 639-3 noe Glottolog nima1243[3]
"Nimadi is a Western Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Nimar region of west-central India. It is within the state of Madhya Pradesh and lies adjacent to Maharashtra and south of Malwa. The districts where Nimadi is spoken are: Barwani, Khandwa, Barwaha, Khargone, Burhanpur, Bedia, Sanawad and parts of Dhar, Harda and South Dewas districts. The famous writers of Nimari was Gaurishankar Sharma, Ramnarayan Upadhyay etc.[4]"
"Nimari is mainly spoken in Khargone, Barwani and Khandwa districts. Ramnarayan Upadhyay, Mahadeo Prasad Chaturvedi, Prabhakar ji Dubey, Jeevan Joshi, and others worked in it. ""Ammar Bol "" (Translation of Bhagwat Geeta) composed by Mahadeo Prasad Chaturvedi ""Madhya"" is the first epic in Nimari."
References
Kangri Native to India Region Kangra Valley Native speakers 3.1million (2011) Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan North-Western Western Pahari (Dogri–Kangri) Kangri Writing system Devanagari Official status Official language in No official status Language codes ISO 639-3 xnr Glottolog kang1280[1]
"Kangri is a dialect spoken in northern India, predominantly in the Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Una districts and some parts of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh and in the Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur districts in the Punjab state. It is associated with the people of the Kangra Valley. It is an Indo-Aryan dialect, closely related to Dogri and today classified as one of the Western Pahari (पहाड़ी) group of languages, with some influence in vocabulary Standard Punjabi (Majhi). which is spoken to the west in the state of Punjab. Kangri, along with Dogri, has been classified as a dialect of Punjabi by linguists but since the 1960s, both have been recognised as dialects of a separate language group called Pahari."
Efforts
Library Museum
Some of the rare books and manuscripts
"Saraswathi Mahal Library or Tanjore Maharaja Serfoji's Sarasvati Mahal Library is located in Thanjavur (Tanjore), Tamil Nadu, India. It is one of the oldest libraries in Asia, and has on display a rare collection of Palm leaf manuscripts and paper written in Tamil, Hindi, Telugu, Marathi, English and a few other languages indigenous to India. The collection comprises well over 60,000 volumes, though only a tiny fraction of these are on display. The library has a complete catalogue of holdings, which is being made available online. Some rare holdings can be viewed on site by prior arrangement.[1]"
"The Saraswathi Mahal library started as a Royal Library for the private pleasure of the Nayak Kings of Thanjavur who ruled 1535 - 1675 AD. The Maratha rulers who captured Thanjavur in 1675 patronised local culture and further developed the Royal Palace Library until 1855. Most notable among the Maratha Kings was Serfoji II (1798–1832), who was an eminent scholar in many branches of learning and the arts. In his early age Serfoji studied under the influence of the German Reverent Schwartz, and learned many languages including English, French, Italian and Latin. He enthusiastically took special interest in the enrichment of the Library, employing many Pandits to collect, buy and copy a vast number of works from all renowned Centres of Sanskrit learning in Northern India and other far-flung areas."
"Since 1918 the Saraswathi Mahal Library has been a possession of the state of Tamil Nadu. Its official name of the Library was changed to ""The Thanjavur Maharaja Serfoji's Sarasvati Mahal Library"" in honour of the great royal Marathan patron."
"The library is open to the public; it also supports efforts to publish rare manuscripts from the collection, as well as ensuring all volumes are preserved on microfilm. The Library has installed computers in 1998 for the Computerisation of Library activities. As a first phase, the Library catalogues are being stored in the Computer for easy information retrieval. It is also proposed to digitalise the manuscripts of this Library shortly.[2]"
"A museum is located in the Library building to reveal the importance of the Library to the Public. This Museum is small but organised into sections highlighting ancient Manuscripts, Illustrated Manuscripts, Printed copies of the Original Drawings, Atlases, Thanjavur- style Paper Paintings, Canvass Paintings, Wooden Paintings, Glass paintings, Portraits of the Thanjavur Maratha kings, and the Physiognomy charts of Charles Le-Brun. These materials give an idea of the total variety in the vast collection within the Library."
"Sarasvati Mahal Library — official website (archived) (English) Catalogue of Sanskrit Manuscripts at Saraswati Mahal Library, Tanjavur"
Saraswathi Mahal Library
"National Highway 71 (NH 71), (previously National Highway 205), is a National Highway in India, that lies completely in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The western terminal starts at the junction of NH 42 near Madanapalle and terminates at the junction of National Highway 716 (India) near Renigunta in the east.[1][2]"
"It starts at Madanapalle and passes through Pileru, Tirupati, Renigunta, Yerpedu before it ends at Nayudupeta road. It has a route length of 191 km (119 mi).[2]"
Distribution
"Kharia Region India (Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Nepal Native speakers 240,000 (2001 census)[1] Language family Austroasiatic Munda Kharia–Juang Kharia Language codes ISO 639-3 khr Glottolog khar1287[2]"
The Kharia language (autonym: kʰaɽija or kʰeɽija[3]) is a Munda language that is primarily spoken by indigenous Kharia people of eastern India.
"Kharia belongs to the Kharia–Juang branch of the Munda language family. Its closest extant relative is the Juang language, but the relationship between Kharia and Juang is remote."
"The most widely cited classification places Kharia and Juang together as a subgroup of the South Munda branch of the Munda family. However, some earlier classification schemes placed Kharia and Juang together, as an independent branch deriving from the root of the Munda languages, which they named Central Munda."
"Kharia is in contact with Sadri (the local lingua franca), Mundari, Kurukh, Hindi, and Odia (in Odisha) (Peterson 2008:434)."
Kharia speakers are located in the following districts of India (Peterson 2008:434).
Jharkhand Simdega district Gumla district Chhattisgarh Surguja district Raigarh district Odisha Sundargarh district
Classification
Distribution
Writing System
"Juang Native to India Region Orissa Ethnicity Indian Native speakers 24,000 (2001 census)[1] Language family Austroasiatic Munda Kharia–Juang Juang Language codes ISO 639-3 jun Glottolog juan1238[2]"
"The Juang language is a language spoken primarily by the Juang people of Odisha state, eastern India."
"The Juang language belongs to the Munda language family, the whole of which is classified as a branch of the greater Austroasiatic language family. Among the Munda languages, Juang is considered to be most closely related to Kharia, although Anderson considers Juang and Kharia to have split off from each other relatively early.[1]"
"Juang can be roughly divided into the Hill and Plains varieties, both of which are spoken in Odisha (Patnaik 2008:508)."
Hill Juang: Gonasika Hills (in Keonjhar district) and Pallara Hills Plains Juang: about 147 villages in southern Keonjhar district and eastern Dhenkanal district
"Juang is spoken by about 30,875 people according to the 2001 Indian census. In Odisha state, it is spoken in southern Keonjhar district, northern Angul district, and eastern Dhenkanal district (Patnaik 2008:508)."
The writing system used by people who speak the Juang language is Oriya script.
Singhbhumi Odia is the northernmost dialect of the Odia language spoken in the districts of Seraikella-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum and parts of East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand.
"Almost all native Odia speakers of Jharkhand except for those living in the parts of East Singhbhum district bordering West Bengal and Odisha speak in this dialect. The historic Singhbhum region comprises the western parts of Seraikella-Kharsawan district and whole of West Singhbhum district. Singhbhumi Odia is used as subsidiary language by host of non Odia people like Kurmis and Kols and Santhals living in Singhbhum region. Apart from the native Odia households Singhbhumi Odia is spoken as a common language in the old township of Chakradharpur, Seraikella and Kharsawan. Historically Odia was the court language in the ancient kingdom of Porahat (Chakradharpur) apart from princely states of Seraikella and Kharsawan."
Singhbhumi Odia is distinct among the major dialects of Odia as it is spoken in a region completely outside of modern-day Odisha. The vocabulary used by the native speaker has lots of borrowings from his Kurmi neighbor and Sambalpuri dialect of Western Odisha apart from the local dialects of Mayurbhanj and Kendujhar districts of Odisha.
"The native Odia people of Singhbhum have preserved their unique identity since centuries by communicating in the local Odia dialect. Their customs, traditions, festivals and ceremonies get life from their native dialect. Singhbhumi Odia is also the language of world famous dance of Seraikella Chhau and its sister form from Kharsawan. Masters use typical Singhbhumi terms to explain technicalities of the ancient dance form to their disciples. Ancient style of songs called Jhumur-peculiar to Chhotanagpur plateau and neighboring areas also got enriched by native Odia poets. Notable among them is Prafulla Singhdeo from Raidih in Kharsawan who has composed and sung Jhumur in Singhbhumi Odia and played important role in popularizing the art form."
Here are some Singhbhumi Odia equivalents of Standard Odia.
"Standard Odia Singhbhumi Odia Kana (କଣ/କଅଣ) Ki Kanhiki (କାହିଁକି) Kipain/Kinagi Odisa (ଓଡ଼ିସା) Udisa (ଉଡ଼ିସା) Asuchhanti Asuchhan Khaibaku (ଖାଇବାକୁ) Khaite (ଖାଇତେ) Soibaku (ସୋଇବାକୁ) Suite (ସୁଇତେ) Chilleiba Chirkaliba/Chihudiba Sighra Chaande/Jaldi Daanda Kulhi Luna (ଲୁଣ), Luga (ଲୁଗା) Nuna (ନୁଣ), Nuga (ନୁଗା) Olata (ଓଲଟା) Ulta (ଉଲଟା)"
"Bhatri Native to India Region Chhattisgarh Native speakers 220,000 (2001 census)[1] Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan Eastern Halbic Bhatri Language codes ISO 639-3 bgw Glottolog bhat1265[2]"
"Bhatri is an Indic language spoken in Chhattisgarh, India."
"Baleswari Odia (ବାଲେଶ୍ୱରୀ ଓଡିଆ) or Northern Odia (ଉତ୍ତରୀ ଓଡିଆ) is a major dialect of Odia[1] which has linguistic variations[2] spoken in Balasore , Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj districts of Odisha, though the dialect is popularly known as Baleswari there are little variations which vary from place to place. Baleswari Odia spoken in Mayurbhanj are more similar and have impact of tribal twang and northern Baleswar regions have a typically different accent and little Bengali impact. Baleswari Odia in Baleswar urban and the other parts of Baleswar are similar, but when you move towards Soro, Baleshwar, Bhadrak and places of Baleswar district close to Bhadrak district the accent is more like standard Odia mixed with Baleswari Odia.[3]"
Here is a list of major words with Baleswari Odia.
"Standard Odia Baleswari Odia Kana (କଣ/କଅଣ) Kisa(କିସ) Kanhiki (କାହିଁକି) Kene(କେନେ) Odisa (ଓଡ଼ିସା) Udisa (ଉଡ଼ିସା) Potala (ପୋଟଳ) Putula (ପୁଟୁଳ) Khaibaku (ଖାଇବାକୁ) Khaite (ଖାଇତେ) Soibaku (ସୋଇବାକୁ) Suite (ସୁଇତେ) Jibi (ଜିବି) Jimi (ଜିମି) Goda (ଗୋଡ଼) Guda (ଗୁଡ଼) Polo (ପୋଲ) Pula (ପୁଲ) Luna (ଲୁଣ), Luga (ଲୁଗା) Nuna (ନୁଣ), Nuga (ନୁଗା) Olata (ଓଲଟା) Ulta (ଉଲଟା)"
Ganjami Odia (ଗଞ୍ଜାମି ଓଡ଼ିଆ) is a dialect of the Odia language spoken in Ganjam and Gajapati districts of Odisha and in the Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh)
"Ganjami Odia is a beautiful dialect and varies accent wise from the dialect spoken in the rest parts of Odisha, the accent has little south Indian impact because of Telugu, but still there is a large set of typical Ganjam vocabulary and the real asset of Odia language and a great source of research for linguists. [1]"
Here are few of the typical Ganjami words and their synonyms in standard Odia:
"Standard Odia Ganjami Odia Kana (କଣ/କଅଣ) Kiana (କିଅଣ) Tarakari (ତରକାରି) Tuna (ତୁଣ/ ତିଅଣ) Loka (ଲୋକ) Loka (ଲୋକ), Noka (ନୋକ) Luna (ଲୁଣ) Nuna (ନୁଣ) Olata (ଓଲଟା) Ulta (ଉଲଟା) Birakta (ବିରକ୍ତ) Bijaara (ବିଜାର) Golia ghanti (ଗୋଳିଆ ଘାଣ୍ଟି) Alara (ଅଲରା) Khata (ଖଟା) Ambila (ଆମ୍ବିଳ) Sajana (ସଜନା ଚୁଈ) Munika (ମୁନିକା) Bandhakobi (ବନ୍ଧାକୋବି) Patrakobi (ପତ୍ରକୋବି) Gudie (ଗୁଡ଼ିଏ) Menche (ମେଞ୍ଚେ)"
Ganjami Odia
"Phulabani Odia/Phulbani Odia (ଫୁଲବାଣୀ ଓଡିଆ): spoken in Phulbani, Phulbani Town, Khajuripada block,Phiringia Block of Kandhamal and Boudh district.The Odia spoken Form of Phulbani & Boudh by the tribal language like Kui,Kurukh & Kalahandia Odia.It is inclined more towards Standard Odia literary Language."
Standard Odia Phulabani Odia/Phulbani Odia Kana (କଣ/କଅଣ) kada(କାଡା) kouthi(କୋଉ keney(କେନେ) Tarakari (ତରକାରି) Tun (ତୁ୍ଣ୍) Loka (ଲୋକ) Luka ଲୁକ) Gudie (ଗୁଡ଼ିଏ) jaka (ଜାକ) Bartamaan(ବର୍ତମାନ୍) Eleygi(ଈଲେଗି) kahinki (କାହଁକି) Kaelagi(କାଈଲାଗି) Ousadh(ଔଷଧ) Usa(ଉଶ) Bijhiba(ଭିଜିବା) Tintiba(ତିନ୍ତିବା)
"Vilanka Ramayana is a 15th-century retelling of the Indian epic poem, the Ramayana, written by Sarala Das in Oriya, describing the fight between Rama and Ravana.[1][2] The story is written as a poem."
Mandavi The four sons of Dasharatha circumbulate the altar during their marriage rites Information Spouse(s) Bharata Children Taksha Pushkal
"In the Hindu epic Ramayana, Mandavi was daughter of Kushadhwaja and his wife queen Chandrabhaga, brother of King Janaka of Mithila and hence a cousin of Sita. She had a younger sister Shrutakirti. She was wife of Kaikeyi's son and Rama's younger brother Bharata. They had two sons- Taksh and Pushkal."
Birth & Childhood
"Lava or Luv[1](Sanskrit: लव meaning particle, Kannada: ಲವ, Telugu: లవుడు, Tamil: இலவன், Malay: Tilawi, Indonesian: Lawa, Khmer: Jupalaks, Lao: Phra Lao, Assamese: Laba, Thai: Phra Lop/พระลพ) and his twin brother Kusha, were the children of Lord Rama and his wife Sita, whose story is recounted in the Hindu epic Ramayana. Kusha was elder of the two and is said to have wheatish golden complexion like their mother, while Lava had blueish complexion like their father. Lava is purported to have founded Lavapuri,[2] that is, the modern day city of Lahore,[3] which is named after him.[4] The Southeast Asian country Laos[5] and the Thai city Lopburi were both named after him. The Sikarwar Rajputs, Awadhiya (caste) and Leva Patidar are present-day Indo-Aryan ethnic groups who claim to be descendants of Lava. Lava belongs to the Ikshvaku clan or Suryavansh Dynasty of Kshatriyas in ancient India.[1][6][7]"
"According to Ramayana, Sita was banished from the kingdom of Ayodhya by Rama due to the gossip of kingdom folk. She took refuge in the ashram of Sage Valmiki located on the banks of the Tamsa river.[8] Lava and Kusha were born at the ashram and were educated and trained in military skills under the tutelage of Valmiki. They also learned the story of Rama."
Lava and Kusha became rulers after their father Rama and founded the cities of Lahore (called Lavapuri in ancient times) and Kasur respectively. The king of Kosala Raghava Rama installed his son Lava at Sravasti and Kusha at Kushavati.[9]
"There is a temple associated with Lava (or Loh) inside Shahi Qila, Lahore.[10]"
"Lakshman Rekha (Sanskrit: लक्ष्मण रेखा), in some later versions of Ramayana, is a line drawn by Lakshmana around the dwelling he shares with his brother Rama and Rama's wife Sita at Panchavati in the forest of Dandakaranya which now part of the city of Nashik in Maharashtra. The line is meant to protect Sita, while he is away searching for Rama. Ramacharitamanas, the popular North Indian rendering of story of Rama, does not feature the Lakshmana Rekha story in the Aranya Kanda. Neither does the original, the Valmiki Ramayana. However, in Lanka Kanda of the Ramcharitmanas, (35.1) Mandodari rebukes Ravana on his boisterous claims of valour by hinting that his claim of strength and valour is shallow for he could not even cross a small line drawn by Shri Rama's younger brother Lakshmana."
"In the story, Rama goes chasing a golden deer (which actually is the Rakshasa Maricha in disguise), and does not return for a long time. When Sita coerces Lakshmana to leave in search of his brother, Lakshmana who cannot bear to see Sita cry in grief, reluctantly decides to go and search for Rama, subject to his condition that Sita not cross the protective line he draws. Anybody other than Rama, Sita and himself attempting to cross the line would be singed by flames erupting from the line. Once Lakshmana leaves in search of Rama, the Rakshasa king Ravana comes in the form of a mendicant and asks Sita for alms. Not expecting a trick, she unsuspectingly crosses the Lakshman Rekha to provide alms to him and Ravana kidnaps her in his Pushpaka Vimana."
"Radhey Shyam Ramayan mentions that the crossing of Lakshaman Rekha by Sita was done absent-mindedly by an anxious Sita only to honour the great Indian tradition of ""अतिथि देवो भवः"" (Atithi Devo Bhava): the guest is embodiment of a Deva (divine entity). Sita crosses the boundary line only to give alms to Ravana once he insists that alms cannot be accepted across a barrier as having a boundary in between was against the principle of free will of the donor."
Modern use
"Lakshman Rekha, in modern Indian parlance, refers to a strict convention or a rule, never to be broken. It often refers to the ethical limits of an action, traversing which may lead to undesirable consequences. Example of use:"
Saptakanda Ramayana is the 14th century Assamese version of the Ramayana attributed to the poet Madhava Kandali. It is considered to be the first translation from the Sanskrit to a modern regional Indo-Aryan language. This work is also considered one of the earliest written examples of the Assamese language.
"A particular feature of this work is the non-heroic portrayal of Rama, Sita, and other characters, as explicitly stated by Madhav Kandali himself, which rendered the work unsuitable for religious purposes. This feature disturbed a later poet, Ananta Kandali, who was moved enough to comment on it. The first (Adikanda) and the last (Uttarakanda) cantos of the Madhava Kandali's work was lost, and were later inserted by Madhavdeva and Sankardeva respectively in the 16th century. This work has been translated into the English language."
The Ramayana
"The Ramayana was written upon the request of the Kachari king Mahamanikya (Mahamanikpha, 1330-1370). At that time, his kingdom centered on present-day Nagaon. Kandali writes:"
"The poetic work uses various metres for different moods and situations. Some of the metres used are pada (fourteen syllables, four lines of verses), jhumura (four lines, with eight syllables each), dulari (three charana, first and second has six syllables each and the third has eight syllables), and chhavi (like dulari, but with different syllabilic structure). The pada metre became very popular in later Assamese compositions."
Later additions and influences
"The adi kanda (Book 1) and the uttara kanda (Book 7) were lost by the 15th century, so they were later added by Madhavdev and Srimanta Sankardeva respectively. Sankardeva writes of Kandali:"
"This work has cast a strong influence on Sankardeva, and also later Assamese works. A later Karbi Ramayana was also influenced by this work."
"Raghunatha Ramayana is a Telugu translation of the Hindu epic Ramayana made by the Thanjavur Nayak ruler Raghunatha Nayak. Of the whole work, only the first three cantos and a part of the fourth is extant."
About the epic
Modifications to the story
The fire-ordeal episode
Theme
Sri Ramayana Darshana (ಶ್ರೀ ರಾಮಾಯಣ ದರ್ಶನ) is the most famous work and the magnum opus by Kuvempu in Kannada based on the Hindu epic Ramayana. It earned him many distinctions including the Sahitya Akademi and the Jnanapeeth award in 1967.[1] [2]
"The theme is the well known story of Rama in Valmiki's Ramayana, transfigured in the poet's vision. The cardinal element of this vision, which the poet calls 'darshanam', is the poet's realization that all the creation is caused, pervaded, sustained and governed by the cosmic mind. Abounding in metaphors and Homeric similes, introduced by the poet himself for the first time in Kannada, the epic brings home the truth that all beings, even the most wicked and sinful, are destined to evolve and ultimately attain perfection."
"Sri Ramayana Darshanam is not just another version of Valmiki's story. Kuvempu's work amounts to an interpretative re-creation of the incidents, the characters and the philosophical, moral and spiritual ideas enshrined in Valmiki. Keeping in view the symbolic nature of his poem, the intent and import of his 'vision', and the zeitgeist, Kuvempu has made quite a number of modifications in the characters, major as well as minor. What is more he has invented a good many episodes and introduced some new characters in harmony with his conception of the significance of the epic."
"The 'Agni-pravesha' (The fire-ordeal) episode illustrates the above statement. At Sita's command, Lakshmana makes a pyre for her and Sita mounts it. It is at this point that Kuvempu makes a startling deviation from Valmiki. The moment Sita has offered herself as supreme oblation to Agni, Rama too rushes after her, and enters the blazing flames, much to the shock of all earthly spectators. In a moment, however, Rama comes out of the fire holding Sita's palm in his right hand, and the spectators get a glimpse of their divinity. By this sensational innovation Kuvempu has proclaimed the great principle of the supremacy of the law, and the equality of all before the law, not excepting the law-giver himself. What is more, if this 'Agni-pravesha' is intended to reveal to all the world the truth of Sita's chastity, it is also intended to reveal Rama's fidelity and love for Sita."
"It is a single integral, ecstatic symphony in 22284 lines, running into 877 pages in print. The poet was 32 when he began and 41 when he completed this epic. Every line is chiseled to attain an incremental harmony, hardly to be met with in his lyrics. It converts every situation into a wonderful aural structure which perfectly echoes the germ motif. It is not a series of cantata but a single orchestral piece. Every line is a variation of the relevant thematic rhythm. No one could have imagined that the Kannada language is capable of this complex musical quality. For the first time in this century Kannada was made a language worthy of Gods.[3] Sri Ramayana Darshanam is dedicated with deep reverence and respect to his mentor Sri TS Venkannaiah (the first Kannada professor in Karnataka (Mysore University))."
"Ramavataram, popularly referred to as Kamba Ramayanam, is a Tamil epic that was written by the Tamil poet Kamban during the 12th century. Based on Valmiki's Ramayana (which is in Sanskrit), the story describes the life of King Rama of Ayodhya. However, Ramavatharam is different from the Sanskrit original in many aspects - both in spiritual concepts and in the specifics of the storyline. This historic work is considered by both Tamil scholars and the general public as one of the greatest literary works in Tamil literature."
"Kamban wrote this epic with the patronage of Thiruvennai Nallur Sadayappa Vallal, a Pannai kula chieftain (திருவெண்ணை நல்லூர் சடயப்ப வள்ளல்). In gratitude to his patron, Kamban references his name once in every 1,000 verses."
"The epic is quite well known, both in the Tamil literary world and in the Hindu spiritual world, for the colorfulness of its poetry and for its religious value."
"Subahu (Sanskrit: सुबाहु Supāhu, Tamil: சுபாகு Cupāku, Kannada: ಸುಬಾಹು, Thai: Sawahu) is a rakshasa character in the Ramayana. He and his mother, Tataka, took immense pleasure in harassing the munis of the jungle, especially Vishvamitra, by disrupting their yajnas with rains of flesh and blood."
"Vishvamitra approached Dasharatha for help in getting rid of these pestilences. Dasharatha obliged by sending two of his sons, Rama and Lakshmana, to the forest with Vishvamitra, charging them to protect both the sage and his sacrificial fires. When Subahu and Tataka again attempted to rain flesh and blood on the sage's yajna, they were both killed by Rama."
Ashwamedha Yagna
Birth & Childhood
Later History
See Also
"Kusha and his twin brother Lava were the children of Rama and his wife Sita, whose story is recounted in the Hindu epic Ramayana. He was the ruler of the kingdom centered at Kasur in ancient times.[1] His brother Lava is purported to be the founder of Lahore."
"The imperial line that ruled Varanasi and the Maurya Empire, which ruled the Indian subcontinent from 320-185 BCE, claimed descent from Kusha. Kusha is said to be an Ikshvaku."
Rama fighting Lava and Kusha
"According to Ramayana, pregnant Sita was banished from the kingdom of Ayodhya by Rama due to the gossip. She then took refuge in the ashram of the sage Valmiki located on the banks of the Tamsa River.[2]In some versions, Lava was born at the ashram and Kusha was created by Valmiki with a dry grass and supply soul of rishi Shambuka in Kusha's effigy and were educated and trained in military skills and given many natural power under the tutelage of Valmiki. In some versions Sita gave birth to twin sons."
"When Rama performed the Ashvamedha Yagya, which the sage Valmiki, with Lava and Kusha, attended, Lava and Kusha sung the Ramayana in the presence of Rama and his vast audience. When Lava and Kusha recited about Sita's exile, Rama became grief-stricken and Valmiki produced Sita. Sita called upon the earth, her mother, to receive her and as the ground opened, she vanished into it. Rama then learnt that Lava and Kusha were his children. In some versions, Lava-Kusha catch the horse of the sacrifice and defeat Rama's brothers and army and when Rama came to fight with then Sita intervenes and unites father and sons."
"Lava and Kusha became rulers after their father Rama and founded the cities of Lavapuri and Kasur respectively. Kushavati was a city in Kosala Kingdom as per epic Ramayana. The king of Kosala, Raghava Rama, installed his son Lava at Sravasti and Kusha at Kushavati. The city is now identified to be Kushinagar, a town near Gorakhpur."
Sampati Loses his wings
Sampati in Ramayana
"In Hindu mythology, Sampati (Sanskrit: सम्पाति Sampāti, Indonesian: Sempati, Thai: Sampathi, Tamil: Campati, Malay: Dasampani) was the oldest son of Aruṇa and a brother of Jatayu. Sampati lost his wings when he was a child."
"Sampathi and Jatayu, when young, used to compete as to who could fly higher in nilmatha. On one such instance Jatayu flew so high that he was about to get seared by the sun's flames. Sampati saved his brother by spreading his own wings and thus shielding Jatayu from the hot flames. In the process, Sampati himself got injured and lost his wings. As a result, Sampati lived wingless for the rest of his life."
"Sampati proved instrumental in Sita's search later on in the Ramayana. His role comes when the search party sent to the south, led by Angada with aloi and Jambavan, exhausted, thirsty and depressed, reach to the southern end of the land. They have the endless sea before them, and still no clue of Sita. Disappointed, everybody just collapses on the sand, unable and unwilling to move or act any further. At this point, Sampati appears, openly talking about his fortune in so much easy meat arriving at his doorstep. At that moment, Jambavan laments out loud, comparing the morals of a vulture who would prey on the helpless with the vulture Jatayu, who defended Sita from Ravana."
"The Griddhraj Parvat, situated in Satna district in Madhya Pradesh, is believed to be the birthplace of Sampati.[1]"
History of Jatayu
Places related to Jatayu
"In the Indian epic Ramayana, Jatayu (Sanskrit: जटायुः Jatāyu, Khmer: ជតាយុ: Jatayu, Kannada: ಜಟಾಯು: Jatayu, Telugu: జటాయు, Tamil: Chatayu, Thai: Sadayu, Malay: Jentayu or Chentayu, Indonesian: Burung Jatayu meaning ""Jatayu bird"") is the youngest son of Aruna. His brother, Sampaati, is a demi-god who has the form of a Vulture and was an old friend of Dasharatha (Rama's father)."
"In the Epic Ramayana when Jatayu sees Ravana abducting Sita, he tries to rescue Sita from Ravana . Jatayu fought valiantly with Ravana, but as he was very old Ravana soon got the better of him. As Rama and Lakshmana chanced upon the stricken and dying Jatayu in their search for Sita, he informs them of the fight between him and Ravana and tells them that he had gone south."
"Jatayu and his brother Sampaati, when young, used to compete as to who could fly higher. On one such instance, Jatayu flew so high that he was about to get seared by the sun's flames. Sampati saved his brother by spreading his own wings and thus shielding Jatayu from the hot flames. In the process, Sampati himself got injured and lost his wings. As a result, Sampati lived wingless for the rest of his life."
"While Jatayu was wounded and lying on the ground when Lord Rama arrived, Lord Rama sensed the end result and decided that Jatayu gets moksha. Lord Rama then slammed an arrow into the ground so as to call all seven sacred rivers, called teertha. Six rivers' waters arrived, one river water failing to obey Lord Rama's call. Since Lord Rama was himself an incarnation of Lord Vishnu, He forced the Gaya teertha to arrive at the spot."
"According to the legend, it is believed that Jatayu fell on the rocks in Chadayamangalam, 38 km from Kollam district of Kerala, India after his wings were chopped off by Ravana. Formerly, the place was called Jatayumangalam. This is the place which is mostly credited to the falling place of Jatayu since rocks there holds stricking carvings of Jatayu's beak mark during his last breath and footprints of Lord Rama. Lepakshi in Andhra Pradesh, India is also attributed to the place where Jatayu fell after being wounded by Ravana, and Ramarkal Mettu is the place where the last rites were performed. Rama is said to have commanded the bird to rise Le Pakshi, hence the name for that town.[1][2]"
jatayu is a friend of feludain the the feluda crime series by Satyajit Ray .He is a crime - thriller novel writer . his original name is Lalmohan Ganguly
"Ashwapati or Aśwapati (अश्‍वपति) is the appellation of many kings in Hindu mythology. It means 'Lord of horses.' It was an appellation comparable to that of the knight or Ritter in Europe. According to Ramayana Ashwapati was king of Kekeya Kingdom the land of fine horses. He was father of a daughter Kaikeyi (Favorite queen of King Dasharatha) and seven sons. one of the important son was Yudhajeet, who played important role in great epic Ramayana.Ashwapati was Maternal Grand father of Bharata."
Exile of his wife
"Due to a boon, Ashwapati was able to understand the language of the birds. However, this was accompanied by a caveat that if he ever revealed the content of bird speak to anyone, even his own mother, that he would forthwith lose his life. One day, the King and his Queen were strolling through the palace gardens when Ashwapati happened to overhear the conversation of a pair of mated swans. The conversation so amused him that he laughed heartily, instigating his wife's curiosity. Despite being aware of the fact that Ashwapati could not divulge the content of the conversation to her without losing his life, Kaikeyi's mother insisted on knowing the cause of the King's mirth. When Ashwapati realized that his wife cared little for his life or well-being, he had her banished to her parents' home."
Promise made by Dasharatha
Dasharatha made promise to Ashwapati and Yudhajeet at the time of Kaikeyi marriage that the son born of her womb would succeed him as King of Kosala. and by crowning Rama as king Dasharatha is doing injustice to whole Kekeya Kingdom.
Devotion towards his Parents
Sarvan Village
"Shravan (Sanskrit: श्रवण) also known as Shravankumar (Sanskrit: श्रवणकुमार) or (Shrobon in Bengali) is a historical character whose short and poignant life is depicted in Ramayana, an ancient Sanskrit epic."
"Shravan's parents were hermits. His Parents Name was Shantanu and Gyanvanti. Once they told him that they had become quite aged. They, therefore, wanted him to take them to the forty places of pilgrimage, it is a typical Hindu belief that a pilgrimage to the various shrines and holy places undertaken in old age, purifies the soul. At the time, transport was scarce and costly, and Shravan Kumar could not afford it. He decided to put each parent in a basket and tie each to an end of a bamboo pole, which he would shoulder while on their pilgrimage."
"According to the legend in Ramayana, while hunting in the forest of Ayodhya, then-Prince Dashratha heard a sound near a lake and unleashed an arrow, hoping to hit an animal. When he crossed the lake to collect his kill, he found that his arrow had fatally struck a teenage boy who was bleeding. The boy, Shravan Kumar, told Dasaratha, that he had come to the lake to collect water for his sick and aged parents, who were both blind and who he had been carrying on a sling. With his dying breath, Shavran requested the prince to take water to his parents and to tell them what happened. After telling his tale, Shravan succumbed to his wounds and when Dasaratha took water for his parents and told them of his tragic mistake, they were unable to bear the shock. Despite acknowledging that it was an accident, they cursed Dasaratha that he too would experience ""Putrashoka"" (Sanskrit, ""putra"" is child/son and ""shoka"" is grief; grief due to loss of a son).[1]"
"Local tradition holds that the place where Shravan died was named Sarvan (Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh). The spot where Dashratha shot his arrow came to be known as Sarwara and the place where Shravan's parents died is called Samadha. An old and rough memorial for Shravan on the banks of the lake is now withering away. It is said that there lies a stone statue of Shravan Kumar and as he died of unquenched thirst, if water is poured into the navel of the stone figure, the hole never gets filled up. Villagers from Sarvan and adjoining places visit the spot every Monday to offer prayers to Shravan, who is revered as a dutiful son.[1]"
"In Hindu mythology, Vedavati(Sanskrit:वेदवती) is speculated to have been the spirit of Sita Devi, the wife of Lord Rama in the epic Ramayana. She was another avatar of Devi Laxmi."
"Vedavati is the daughter of Brahmarishi Kusadhvaja, who is the son of Brihaspati, Lord-Guru of the Devas, the Gods. Having spent his life chanting and studying the sacred Vedas, he names his daughter Vedavati, or Embodiment of the Vedas, born as the fruit of his bhakti and tapasya."
Dedication to Vishnu
"Her father wants his child to have Lord Vishnu as her husband. He thus rejects many powerful kings and celestial beings who sought his daughter's hand. Outraged by his rejection, King Sambhu murders her parents in the middle of a moonless night."
"Vedavati continues to live in the ashram of her parents, meditating night and day and performing a great tapasya to win Vishnu for her husband."
"The Ramayana describes her as wearing the hide of a black antelope, her hair matted in a jata, like a rishi. She is inexpressibly beautiful, in the bloom of her youth, enhanced by her tapasya."
Immolation and death
"Ravana, the emperor of Lanka and the rakshasa race found Vedavati sitting in meditation and is captivated by her incredible beauty. He propositions her and is rejected. Ravana mocks her austerities and her devotion to Vishnu; finding himself firmly rejected at every turn, he grabbed her hair. This greatly incensed her, and she forthwith cut off her hair, and said she would enter into the fire before his eyes, adding, ""Since I have been insulted in the forest by thee who art wicked-hearted, I shall be born again for thy destruction."" So she entered the blazing fire, and celestial flowers fell all around. It was she who was born again as Sita, and was the moving cause of Ravana's death, though Rama was the agent.[1]"
"Vedavati refuses to curse Ravana as it would exhaust her tapasya, but pledges to return in another age and be the cause of his destruction."
"In some versions of the Ramayana, Vedavati is reborn as Maya Sita, who takes Sita's place and is abducted by Ravana and suffers his captivity, while the real Sita hides in the fire."
"The Rishi Agastya tells Rama that Vedavati was reborn as SWAHA, Agni's Wife and became the cause of Ravana's destruction at his hands."
Ancient history and myths
Jainism
See more
"Mithila (IAST: mithilā Nepali: प्राचीन मिथिला) is the name of the region where Maithili speakers reside and also the ancient name of Janakpur. It was the capital city of the Kingdom of Videha ruled by King Janak. With its name commonly used to refer to the Videha Kingdom itself, as well as to the modern-day territories that fall within the ancient boundaries of Videha (Mithila (India) and Mithila (Nepal)), The Mithila kingdom existed on the eastern Indo-Gangetic Plain, an area which today is spread over more than half of India's Bihar state and parts of adjoining Nepalese Mithila province. Although Janakpur was the capital of Mithila during the ancient period, it was later shifted to Darbhanga.[1][2]"
"The legend of Mithila extends over many centuries. Both Gautama Buddha and Vardhamana Mahavira are said to have lived in Mithila. It also formed the centre of Nepalese and Indian histories during the first millennium, and has contributed to various literary and scriptural works."
"The name Mithila is derived after mythical King 'Miti' which in Dhatki language means ""Soil"". He was supposed to have been created from the body of his father King Nimi. He established the capital of his kingdom at Mithilapuri and hence the region came to be called Mithila. Since he was born out of body of his father, he took the title Janaka. After this, the Kings of Mithila were called Janaka. The best known Janaka was Seeradhwaja, father of Sita. He was 21st Janaka of Mithila. This dynasty was also called Videha Janaka. There were 57 kings in the dynasty of Videha Janaka."
"The most important reference to Mithila is in the Hindu epic Ramayana, whereby Lord Rama's wife Sita is said to have been the princess of the land, born to King Janaka, who ruled Mithila. Other kings of Mithila during the ancient period were Bhanumath, Satghumanya, Suchi, Urjnama, Satdhwya, Kriti, Anjan, Arisnami, Srutayu, Supasyu, Suryasu, Srinjay, Sourmabi, Anena, Bhimrath, Satyarath, Upangu, Upgupt, Swagat, Snanand, Subrachya, Supraswa, Subhasn, Suchurut, Susurath, Jay, Vijay, Critu, Suny, Vith Habya, Dwati, Bahulaswa and Kriti Tirtiya."
"It is said that the last king of the Janakas was of bad character. He was deposed by the public under the leadership of acharyas or learned men. Thereafter, Mithila remained without a king for hundreds of years. During this period, instead of a monarchy, a democratic system was followed under which the ruler was elected by the people and decisions taken in a collective manner.[3] This continued for several centuries until the region was attacked and conquered by the Magadh kingdom. Thereafter, it came to be included under some of the janapadas (oligarchies ruled by guilds such as Vajji sangha, Licchavi) until after the conquest by successive Magadha dynasties (Shishunaga, Nanda, Maurya, Shunga, Gupta, and Vardhan), who ruled the area at various times."
"According to Jain Agamas, 21st Tirthankara Naminatha was born in Mithila[4] to King Vijaya and Queen Vapra.[5] Mithila was ruled by King Vijaya of Ikshvaku dynasty and after him, by Lord Naminatha.[6]"
"Kumāradāsa is the author of a Sanskrit Mahākāvya called the Jānakī-haraṇa or Jānakī’s abduction. Jānakī is another name of Sita, wife of Rama. Sita was abducted by Ravana when she along with Rama, exiled from his kingdom, and Lakshmana was living in a forest which incident is taken from Ramayana ('Rama’s Journey'), the great Hindu epic written by Valmiki."
"The Sinhalese translation of his work,Jānakī-haraṇa, gave credence to the belief that Kumāradāsa was King Kumāradhātusena (513-522 A.D.) of Sri Lanka but scholars do not make any such identification even though the poet at the end of his poem says that his father, Mānita, a commander of the rearguard of the Sinhalese King Kumāramaṇi, died in battle on the day he was born and that his maternal uncles, Megha and Agrabodhi, brought him up. Rajasekhara, who lived around 900 A.D., in his Kāvyamīmāmsā refers to the poet as born blind - मेधाविरुद्रकुमारदासादयः जात्यन्धाः. There is also a tradition that this poem was written by Kalidasa. Kumāradāsa came after Kalidasa and lived around 500 A.D., later than Bhāravi but before Māgha. While writing Jānakī-haraṇa, he certainly had before him Raghuvaṃśa of Kalidasa.[1]"
"Raghuvamsha (Sanskrit: रघुवंश, Raghuvaṃśa) is a Sanskrit mahakavya (epic poem) by the most celebrated Sanskrit poet Kalidasa. Though an exact date of composition is unknown, the poet is presumed to have flourished in the 5th Century CE.[1] It narrates, in 19 sargas (cantos), the stories related to the Raghu dynasty, namely the family of Dilipa and his descendants up to Agnivarna, who include Raghu, Dasharatha and Rama. The earliest surviving commentary written on the work is that of the 10th-century Kashmiri scholar Vallabhadeva.[2] The most popular and widely available commentary, however, is the Sanjivani, written by Mallinatha (ca.1350-1450)."
Geographical and historical references
Metres used in the epic
"The epic is composed in 21 Sanskrit metres, namely Anuṣṭup, Indravajrā, Upajāti, Upendravajrā, Aupacchandasika, Toṭaka, Drutavilambita, Puṣpitāgrā, Praharṣiṇī, Mañjubhāṣiṇī, Mattamayūra, Mandākrāntā, Mālinī, Rathoddhatā, Vaṃśastha, Vasantatilakā, Vaitālīya, Śārdūlavikrīḍita, Śālinī, Svāgatā, Hariṇī.[3]"
External links to the text
"Rajashekhara (Sanskrit: राजशेखर, Rājaśekhara) was an eminent Sanskrit poet, dramatist and critic. He was court poet of the Gurjara Pratiharas.[1] He wrote Kavyamimamsa between 880 and 920 CE. The work is essentially a practical guide for poets that explains the elements and composition of a good poem.[2] The fame of Rajashekhara rests firmly on his play Karpuramanjari, written in Sauraseni Prakrit. Rajashekhara wrote the play to please his wife, Avantisundari, a woman of taste and accomplishment. He is perhaps the only ancient Indian poet to acknowledge a woman for her contributions to his literary career.[3]"
"In his Bālarāmāyaṇa and Kāvyamimāṃsa, Rajashekhara referred himself by his family name Yāyāvara or Yāyāvarīya. In Bālarāmāyaṇa, he mentioned that his great grandfather Akalajalada belonged to Maharashtra. In the same work, he described his father Durduka as a Mahamantrin (minister) without providing any details. He mentioned in his works that his wife Avantisundari belonged to the Cahamana (Chauhan) family. In his works, he described himself as the teacher of the Gurjara-Pratihara king Mahendrapala I.[4]"
"Nikumbha (निकुम्‍भ) is a demon in Hindu mythology and is the son of Kumbhakarna.[1] He was instructed by Kubera to watch over the Pisacas,[2] (a type of evil spirit),[3] and the Nilamata Purana refers to him as ""the noble and strong lord of the Pisacas.""[2]"
Nikumbha
Bijayagadh inscription
External links
"Yashodharman (IAST: Yaśodharman; Devanagari: यशोधर्मा) was the ancient ruler (Maharaja) of Malwa, in central India, during the early part of the 6th century. He belonged to the Aulikara dynasty.[1]"
"The Gupta empire had been weakened by the attacks of the Indo-Hephthalites, known in India as the Hunas, towards the end of the 5th century, which caused it to break up into smaller states. Yasodharman and the Gupta Emperor Narasimhagupta defeated a Huna army and their ruler Mihirakula in 528 AD and drove the Huns out of India. Twin monolithic pillars at Sondani in Mandsaur District were erected by Yasodharman as a record of his victory.[2][3]"
Three inscriptions of Yasodharman have been found in Mandsaur. One of these is of samvat 589 (532 AD).
"The Bijayagadh Stone Pillar Inscription of Vishnuvardhana, locally known as Bhīm kī Lāţ, was erected at Bayana in Bharatpur district for having perfection been attained in samvat 428 on the fifteenth lunar day of the dark fortnight of (the month) Phâlguna. The line 3 of Bijayagadh Stone Pillar Inscription of Vishnuvardhana reads as:[4]"
"Kaptai Lake Location South-Eastern Bangladesh Coordinates 22°29′45″N 92°13′45″E﻿ / ﻿22.49583°N 92.22917°E﻿ / 22.49583; 92.22917Coordinates: 22°29′45″N 92°13′45″E﻿ / ﻿22.49583°N 92.22917°E﻿ / 22.49583; 92.22917 Type reservoir Primary inflows Karnaphuli River Primary outflows Karnaphuli River Catchment area 11,122 km² Basin countries Bangladesh Average depth 100 ft (30 m) Max. depth 495 ft (151 m)"
"Kaptai Lake is the largest man made lake in Bangladesh.[1] It is located in the Kaptai Upazila under Rangamati District of Chittagong Division. The lake was created as a result of building the Kaptai Dam on the Karnaphuli River, as part of the Karnaphuli Hydro-electric project. The Kaptai Lake's average depth is 100 feet (30 m) and maximum depth is 490 feet (150 m)."
"Construction of the reservoir for the hydro-electric plant began in 1956 by the Government of East Pakistan.[2] As a result, 54,000 acres (220 km2) of farmland in the Rangamati District went under water and created the lake. The hydro-electric project was funded by the United States. The project was finished in 1962. International Engineering Company and Utah International Inc. received the contract for construction of the dam. The dam is 670.8 meters long, and 54.7 meters high. The dam has a 745 feet (227 m) long spillway containing 16 gates. Through the spillway 5,250,000 cu ft/s (149,000 m3/s) of water can pass."
"The land that went under water as a result of the dam construction, was 40% of the total arable land in the area. Along with that, 29 square miles (75 km2) of the Government-owned forest, and 234 square miles (610 km2) of other forest land went under water. About 18,000 families with a total of almost 100 thousand people were also displaced. The palace of the king of the Chakmas was also flooded and is now under water.[2]"
Kaptai Lake
Course
A map showing major rivers in Bangladesh including Meghna.
"The Meghna River (Bengali: মেঘনা নদী) is one of the most important rivers in Bangladesh,[1] one of the three that forms the Ganges Delta, the largest delta on earth fanning out to the Bay of Bengal. A part of the Surma-Meghna River System, Meghna is formed inside Bangladesh in Kishoreganj District above the town of Bhairab Bazar by the joining of the Surma and the Kushiyara, both of which originate in the hilly regions of eastern India as the Barak River. The Meghna meets its major tributary, the Padma, in Chandpur District. Other major tributaries of the Meghna include the Dhaleshwari, the Gumti, and the Feni. The Meghna empties into the Bay of Bengal in Bhola District via four principal mouths, named Tetulia (Ilsha), Shahbazpur, Hatia, and Bamni."
Boat in Meghna River
"The Meghna is the widest river among those that flow completely inside the boundaries of Bangladesh. At a point near Bhola, Meghna is 12 km wide. In its lower reaches this river follows almost a straight line in its path."
"The Meghna is formed inside Bangladesh by the joining of the Surma and Kushiyara rivers originating from the hilly regions of eastern India. Down to Chandpur, Meghna is hydrographically referred to as the Upper Meghna. After the Padma joins, it is referred to as the Lower Meghna."
"At Ghatalpur of Brahmanbaria District, the river Titas emerges from Meghna and after circling two large bends by a distance of about 240 km, falls into the Meghna again near Nabinagar Upazila. The Titas forms as a single stream but braids into two distinct streams which remain separate before re-joining the Meghna."
River Meghna from the bridge over the river
"In Daudkandi, (Comilla District), the Meghna is joined by the Gumti River, which increases the Meghna's waterflow considerably. The pair of bridges over the Meghna and Gumti are two of the country's largest bridges."
"Meghna is again reinforced by the Dhaleshwari before Chandpur. Further down,the Padma River- the largest distributary of the Ganges in Bangladesh,along with the Jamuna River- the largest distributary of the Brahmaputra, join with the Meghna in Chandpur District, resulting in the Lower Meghna."
"When the brown and hazy water of the Padma mix with the clear water of the Upper Meghna, the two streams do not mix but flow in parallel down to the sea - making half of the river clear and the other half brown. This peculiarity of the river is always a great attraction for people."
"After Chandpur, the combined flow of the Padma , Jamuna and Meghna moves down to the Bay of Bengal in an almost straight line, braiding occasionally into a number of riverines including the Pagli, Katalia, Dhonagoda, Matlab and Udhamodi. All of these rivers rejoin the Meghna at different points downstream."
"Near Bhola, just before flowing into the Bay of Bengal, the river again divides into two main streams in the Ganges delta and separates an island from both sides of the mainland. The western stream is called Ilsha while the eastern one is called Bamni."
Dhaleshwari River River Country Bangladesh Source Jamuna River Length 160 km (99 mi)
"The Dhaleshwari River (Bengali: ধলেশ্বরী Dhôleshshori) is a distributary, 160 kilometres (99 mi) long, of the Jamuna River in central Bangladesh. It starts off the Jamuna near the northwestern tip of Tangail District. After that it divides into two branches: the north branch retains the name Dhaleshwari and merges with the other branch, the Kaliganga River at the southern part of Manikganj District. Finally the merged flow meets the Shitalakshya River near Narayanganj District. This combined flow goes southwards to merge into the Meghna River."
Average depth of river is 122 feet (37 m) and maximum depth is 265 feet (81 m).
"Mujibnagar (Bengali: মুজিবনগর), formerly known as Baidyanathtala (Badhayanathtola) and Bhaberpara, is a town in the Meherpur District of Bangladesh.[2] The Provisional Government of Bangladesh was formed on 10 April 1971 in this town by the leaders of the Awami League, who were leading the guerrilla war for the independence of Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) from Pakistan in 1971.[3] The place was renamed Mujibnagar by the proclamation of independence,[4] in honour of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who declared Bangladesh independent.[1] The actual capital of the government while in exile was Calcutta. A memorial complex covering 20.10 acres (8.13 ha) has been built at the site where the ministers of that first government took their oaths."
"Throughout the war with the Pakistan Army, the Mujibnagar government would serve as the nominal head of the pro-independence guerrilla militias, mainly the Mukti Bahini. Although the state gained independence that was recognized by other countries only in December 1971, the Mujibnagar government is recognized as the first official government of Bangladesh.[3] The Vice President of Bangladesh, Syed Nazrul Islam, performed the ceremony at Mujibnagar in the role of Acting President, because the President, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was detained in Pakistan throughout the war.[3]"
Mujibnagar
Points of interest
The Silk City
Rajshahi District (Bengali: রাজশাহী জেলা) is a district in north-western Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division.[1] The metropolitan city of Rajshahi is in Rajshahi District.
"Rajshahi district is bounded by Naogaon District to the north, Natore District to the east, and Chapai Nababganj District and the river Padma to the south."
"There are ten rivers in this district, totaling 146 km in length. The main river is Padma River (Ganges). Some others are Mahananda, Baral and Barnai river."
"Rajshai district has well organized internal communication as well as connection to other parts of the country. There are 96 metalled roads with a total length of about 1270 km, 108 semi-metalled roads of about 546 km length, and six railways of about 63 km total length."
"Rajshahi Metropolitan. Its widely known as Silk City of Bangladesh, the National Silk Board (In Bengali : Jatio Resham Board) is situated at Rajshahi. Also an Inter-City train is named Silk City after Rajshahi. The train communicates Rajshahi to Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh. Rajshahi is famous in Bangladesh for producing Mango and Silk."
Puthia Temple Complex Tomb of Hazrat Shah Makhdum Kismat Madia Mosque Bagha Mosque Bagdhani Mosque Tomb of Hazrat Shah Sultan Bara Kuthi Talando Shiva Mandir
Rajshahi District
"The Hurasagar River, or Hoorsagar, is a major river of Bengal that formerly flowed into the Ganges, but now joins the Jamuna. It receives water from the Baral, the Phuljhar (which is the combination of the Karatoya and the Bangali).[1]"
It is joined to the Ichhamati River by a system of locks.[1]
External links
Writings
Rassundari Devi Born 1810 Pabna Died 1900 Occupation Writer Language Bengali
Rassundari Devi (Bengali: রাসসুন্দরী দেবী) was a Bengali writer who is identified as the author of first full-fledged autobiography[1] in modern Bengali literature. She is among the earliest woman writers in Bengali literature.
"She was the first Indian woman to write an autobiography and first Bengali to write an autobiography. Aamar Jiban (My life), her autobiography, was published in 1876."
"Rassundari was born in 1810 in Potajia village of Pabna. Her father, Padmalochan Roy, died when Rassundari was a small child. She never saw her father and was raised by her mother and relatives. She attended a school run by a missionary woman in her father's house, where boys also studied. Rassundari attended the school for a brief period and learned some Bangla and Persian. At age 12 she married Nilmani Roy from Ramdia village, Rajbari, Faridpur.[2] She was a religious Vaishnavite by faith. With limited formal schooling, she learned to read driven by Bhakti (devotion), out of her keen desire to read Valmiki Purana and Chaitanya Bhagavata. She bore 12 children, of whom 7 died early. Her surviving children were Bepin Behari Sarkar, Dwarka Nath Sarkar, Kishori Lal Sarkar, Pratap Chandra Sarkar and Shyamasundary. Her husband died in 1868.[3] Her son Kishori Lal Sarkar became an advocate at Calcutta High Court and is the author of several noteworthy works.[4] Rassundari died in 1900."
In 1876 Rassundari's autobiography Amar Jiban was published. Jyotirindranath Tagore praised the book for the 'wonderful train of events' and its 'simple sweetness' of expression. Dinesh Chandra Sen called her prose an 'epitome of simple prose compositions of the bygone era'.[5] Her book was translated into Hindi as Mera Jeevan.
"Dhulian City Dhulian Location in West Bengal, India Coordinates: 24°41′N 87°58′E﻿ / ﻿24.68°N 87.97°E﻿ / 24.68; 87.97Coordinates: 24°41′N 87°58′E﻿ / ﻿24.68°N 87.97°E﻿ / 24.68; 87.97 Country  India State West Bengal District Murshidabad Elevation 4 m (13 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 239,022 Languages  • Official Bengali, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 742202 Telephone code +91-3485 Vehicle registration WB58- Lok Sabha constituency Maldaha Dakshin Vidhan Sabha constituency Samserganj"
"Dhulian is a city and a municipality in Murshidabad district in the state of West Bengal, India. It is located between the Ganges and the Hooghly canal."
"Dhulian has been mentioned as an inland water transport (IWT) trading point between Murshidabad and the city of Rajshahi in Bangladesh. Low-cost barges could potentially ply the Ganges river, called Padma in downstream Bangladesh, exchanging goods and reducing smuggling. This proposal has not been agreed to yet by the two countries."
Dhulian is located at 24°41′N 87°58′E﻿ / ﻿24.68°N 87.97°E﻿ / 24.68; 87.97.[1] It has an average elevation of 4 metres (13 feet).
"Dhuliyan is surrounded by Farakka (to the north), Aurangabad (to the South) Pakur (to the West) and Ganges River (Ganga) (to the East)."
"In the 2011 census, Dhulian Urban Agglomeration had a population of 239,022, out of which 119,151 were males and 119,871 were females. The 0–6 years population was 45,483. Effective literacy rate for the 7+ population was 60.06 per cent.[2]"
Damodar Valley
River of Sorrows
Tributaries
"Damodar River (Pron:/ˈdæmoˌdaː/) is a river flowing across the Indian states of West Bengal and Jharkhand. Rich in mineral resources, the valley is home to large-scale mining and industrial activity. Earlier known as the Sorrow of Bengal[2] because of its ravaging floods in the plains of West Bengal, the Damodar and its tributaries have been somewhat tamed with the construction of several dams."
"Means ""rope around the belly"", derived from Sanskrit दाम (dama) ""rope"" and उदर (udara) ""belly"". This is another name of the Hindu god Krishna, given to him because his foster-mother tied him to a large urn.[3]"
"It has a number of tributaries and subtributaries, such as Barakar, Konar, Bokaro, Haharo, Jamunia, Ghari, Guaia, Khadia and Bhera.[3][4]"
"The Barakar is the most important tributary of the Damodar. It originates near Padma in Hazaribagh district and flows through Jharkhand before meeting the Damodar near Dishergarh in West Bengal. The Damodar and the Barakar trifurcates the Chota Nagpur plateau. The rivers pass through hilly areas with great force, sweeping away whatever lies in their path. Two bridges on the Grand Trunk Road near Barhi in Hazaribagh district were torn down by the Barakar: the great stone bridge in 1913 and the subsequent iron bridge in 1946.[5]"
"The Chota Nagpur Plateau receives an average annual rainfall of around 1,400 mm (55 in), almost all of it in the monsoon months between June and August.[6] The huge volume of water that flows down the Damodar and its tributaries during the monsoons used to be a fury in the upper reaches of the valley. In the lower valley it used to overflow its banks and flood large areas."
"The Damodar Valley is spread across Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Koderma, Giridih, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Chatra districts in Jharkhand and Bardhaman and Hooghly districts in West Bengal and partially covers Palamu, Ranchi, Lohardaga and Dumka districts in Jharkhand and Howrah, Bankura and Purulia districts in West Bengal with a command area of 24,235 square kilometres (9,357 sq mi)."
Related Mythology
Pampa Sarovar ಪಂಪ ಸರೋವರ Pampa Sarovar Location Karnataka Coordinates 15°21′13.55″N 76°28′38.55″E﻿ / ﻿15.3537639°N 76.4773750°E﻿ / 15.3537639; 76.4773750Coordinates: 15°21′13.55″N 76°28′38.55″E﻿ / ﻿15.3537639°N 76.4773750°E﻿ / 15.3537639; 76.4773750 Basin countries India
"Pampa Sarovar is a lake in Koppal district near Hampi in Karnataka. To the south of the Tungabhadra River, it is considered sacred by Hindus and is one of the five sacred sarovars, or lakes in India. In Hindu mythology Pampa Sarovar is regarded as the place where Pampa, a form of Shiva's consort Parvati, performed penance to show her devotion to Shiva.[1] It is also one of the Sarovar's that finds a mention in the Hindu epic, Ramayana as the place where Shabari, a devotee of Rama waited for the arrival of Ram."
"The Pampa Sarovar lake is located in a valley, hidden among the hills on the road to Anegundi from Hospet. It is about a kilometer from the foothills of the Hanuman Temple The lake is filled with lotuses, and is really picturesque when the flowers are in bloom. There is a Lakshmi temple, as well as a Shiva temple facing the pond. Next to the pond, under a mango tree stands a small Ganesh shrine.[2]"
"In the Ramayana, Pampa Sarovar is mentioned as the place where Shabari (also Shabri), a disciple of the Rishi Matunga, directed Rama as he journeyed southwards on his quest to redeem Sita, his wife, from the demon king Ravana. According to the story, Shabari, a pious devotee of Rama, prayed faithfully everyday to see Rama. She lived in the ashram of her guru, Matunga in the place know known as Matunga Parvat, in Hampi. Before her guru Matunga Rishi died he told her she would certainly see Rama. After his death, Shabari continued to live in the ashram awaiting Rama. Many years passed by and Shabari became an old woman, before Rama stopped at the ashram on his journey to Lanka. She proceeded to feed Rama and his brother Lakshmana. Touched by her piety Rama and Lakshmana bowed down at her feet. Then, they narrated to her the incident of Sita's kidnapping and Shabari suggested that they seek help from Hanuman and Sugriva of the monkey kingdom who lived further south near the Pampa lake. Pampa sarovar is also famous for the pushti marg vaishnavas, where in Srimad Vallabhacahrya had performed Srimad Bhawwad in the 16th century, in his many bharat darshan visits, also reaffirms the importance of the holy place."
The Battle of Sylhet was a major battle fought between the advancing Mitro Bahini and the Pakistani defences at Sylhet during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The battle took place 7 December and 15 December and was the Indian Army's first heliborne operation.[1]
Battle of Sylhet
List of Expressways
Operational
Photos
Under construction or planning
"Expressways are the highest class of roads in the Indian road network. They are six or eight-lane controlled-access highways where entrance and exit is controlled by the use of slip roads. Currently, India has approximately 1,455.4 km of expressways.[1] The National Highways Development Project by Government of India aims to expand the highway network and plans to add an additional 18,637 km (11,580 mi) of expressways by the year 2022.[2] National Expressways Authority of India operating under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways will be in-charge of the construction and maintenance of expressways.[3]"
"Agra-Lucknow Expressway is the longest expressway in India after its inauguration on 21 November 2016 replacing Yamuna Expressway, cost ₹150 billion (US$2.2 billion).[4][5]"
Only operational length showed as if someone project are operational partly
"Ambala Chandigarh Expressway is four-lane 35 km long,[1] high-traffic density corridor of Ambala-Chandigarh section (km 5.735 to km 39.960 on NH-22 and 0 km to 0.871 km on NH 21) on BOT basis, was completed in 30 months at a cost of ₹2.98 billion (US$44 million)[2] The expressway has been operational since December 2009 and was constructed by the GMR Group with assistance from the World Bank."
"The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is a 27.7 km (17.2 mi) six to eight lane[2] expressway connecting the national capital, Delhi and the satellite city of Gurgaon, Haryana in the National Capital Region of India. The expressway is a part of the Golden Quadrilateral project, which itself is a part of the National Highway Development Project. The ₹10 billion (US$148.6 million), 47.7 km (29.6 mi) expressway was thrown open on January 23, 2008. This expressway is the busiest inter-city route in India and handles more than 180,000 PCUs daily.[3] It starts at Dhaula Kuan in Delhi and terminates on the outskirts of Gurgaon. The road has 11 flyovers and overpasses with 47 km (29 mi) of service roads for local and slow moving traffic."
"Delhi Faridabad Skyway (dfskyway) is a 4.4 km six-lane Elevated highway that connects Delhi with Faridabad. It was inaugurated on November 29, 2010.[1][2] The project was undertaken by Concessionaire Badarpur Faridabad Tollway Limited, a subsidiary of Hindustan Construction Company Limited.[3] The skyway begins at Badarpur, Delhi and ends at sector 37, Faridabad.[4]"
"The Himalayan Expressway is a 27.5 km stretch that runs cutting the Shivaliks at the trijunction of Haryana, Punjab, and Himachal Pradesh. It connects Zirakpur in Punjab to Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh.[1] The stretch runs through 2 km in Punjab, 21 km in Haryana, and 4.5 km in Himachal Pradesh. It was constructed by Jaypee Group."
Benefits
"Although the road cuts short the distance between Zirakpur and Parwanoo by only 3 km, but it helps save fuel and cuts time of travel between Delhi and Shimla by 1 hour to 7 hours, by helping commuters bypass the congested towns of Pinjore and Kalka."
Salient Features
"The stretch has 32 structures including a rail overbridge, two flyovers and 11 bridges. Total Project cost Rs.412 Crore.[2] The 14-lane toll plaza at Zirakpur is the first plaza in India to be fitted with radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. For better monitoring of mishaps, it is fitted with video incident detection system (VIDS)."
"Jaipur-Kishangarh Expressway is a 90 km long access controlled toll expressway connecting Jaipur, the capital of the Indian state of Rajasthan to Kishangarh. The expressway forms a segment of the NH-8 which is a part of the Golden Quadrilateral project, which itself is a part of the National Highway Development Project (NHDP). The six-lane expressway was inaugurated in April 2005.[1] Construction work was handled by GVK Jaipur Expressway Private Limited (GJEPL) under the build-operate-transfer model. Built at a cost of 7.29 billion INR,[2] the expressway was the first Indian road built under the public-private partnership model.[3]"
National Highway 12 (NH 12) is a National Highway in India which runs entirely in West Bengal. It runs from its junction with NH 27 at Dalkhola terminating at Bakkhali.[1]
National Highway 12 (India)
"Raipur-Bhilai-Durg Expressway is a 26.6-kilometre-long (16.5 mi) high-speed urban expressway which links Raipur- Bhilai and Durg on National Highway 6 (NH-6) in the state of Chhattisgarh. The expressway also connects Chhattisgarh with Visakhapatnam, one of the most important ports of India.[2] The expressway has two toll stations installed, one at Kharun - at the entry point of the expressway from Raipur and the other at Kosanala - at the exit point of the expressway towards Durg."
"The construction work of Raipur-Durg Expressway Project, worth Rs 95 crore was awarded by the National Highways Authority of India to DS Constructions Ltd (DSC).[3] The expressway has been constructed on a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis with a concession period of 11 years 9 months, including the construction period of the project.[4] The work included four laning of the existing two-lane carriageway on the Raipur-Durg section of NH-6 in Chhattisgarh.[5] This has reduced the travel time between Raipur and Durg.[6]"
"Biju Expressway is expressway in under construction,[1] measuring 650 km.[2] It will start at Chandili (border village in Koraput district) and touch border towns/market centres such as Kotpad, Boriguma, Nabarangpur, Papadahandi, Ambapani, Gadbhanga, Dharmagarh, Sinapalli, Bhella, Nuapada, Paikamal, Padampur, Sohela, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh before ending at Rourkela.[3]"
"Total cost of the project is around ₹3,630 crore (US$540 million). It will be completed in phased manner. In the first phase of the project, 254 km road will be converted to four-lanes and 402 kilometers to be two-lanes. In the second phase, 258 km will be made four-lane.[4]"
"First phase of the project is scheduled to be completed by May 2017, the second phase completion target has been fixed by the end of 2019. Once completed it will reduce travel time from 13 hrs to 6 hrs.[4]"
307 km of the total length would be developed into four lane standard while the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will develop another 183 km.[5] The 160-km road from Sambalpur to Rourkela (SH-10) will be made four lane through Public Private Partnership (PPP).
The Shimla Chandigarh Expressway is a proposed 120 kilometres (75 mi)[1] long expressway connecting Chandigarh to Shimla. The four laning project involves the creation of 11 tunnels between Maliana (Shimla) and Kothi to help reduce the distance by 19 km. The total length of the tunnels will be 9.5 km. The two longest tunnels will be of 2.27 km each between Taradevi and Shogi and Kandaghat and Solan. The state government wants that the highway be realigned and include more tunnels to reduce the distance by another 20 km. The emphasis will be on reducing the travel time.[2]
Accidents and incidents
Locomotives
Other tourist trains in India
See also
Stations
Trains
Tunnels
"The Kalka–Shimla Railway is a 2 ft 6 in (762 mm) narrow gauge railway in North India travelling along a mostly mountainous route from Kalka to Shimla. It is known for dramatic views of the hills and surrounding villages. The Kalka–Shimla Railway was built in 1898. to connect Shimla, the summer capital of India during the British Raj, with the rest of the Indian rail system. At the time of construction 107 tunnels and 864 bridges, were built throughout the course of the track. The Chief Engineer of the project was H.S. Herlington."
"The locomotives used during the earlier period were manufactured by Sharp, Stewart and Company, and larger locomotives were introduced which were manufactured by Hunslet Engine Company. The diesel and diesel-hydraulic locomotives were started operation in 1955 and 1970 respectively. The railway was declared a heritage by the Himachal Pradesh government in 2007, and in 2008 it became a UNESCO World Heritage Site alongwith the other Mountain Railways of India."
"Shimla (then spelt Simla) was settled by the British shortly after the first Anglo-Gurkha war, and is located at 7,116 feet (2,169 m) in the foothills of the Himalayas. By the 1830s, Shimla had already developed as a major base for the British. It became the summer capital of British India in 1864, and was also the headquarters of the British army in India. Prior to construction of the railway, communication with the outside world was via village cart.[1]"
"The 1,676 mm (5 ft 6 in) broad gauge Delhi-Kalka line opened in 1891.[2] The Kalka–Shimla Railway was built on 2 ft (610 mm) narrow gauge tracks by the Delhi-Ambala-Kalka Railway Company beginning in 1898.[1] The estimated cost was Rs 86,78,500 but the cost doubled during construction. The 96.54 km (59.99 mi) line opened for traffic on 9 November 1903.[1] It was inaugurated by Viceroy of India Lord Curzon.[3]"
"The route winds from the Himalayan Shivalik Hills foothills at Kalka to several important points such as Dharampur, Solan, Kandaghat, Taradevi, Barog, Salogra, Totu (Jutogh), Summerhill and Shimla at an altitude of 2,076 meters (6,811 ft).[7]"
"Originally 107 tunnels were built on Kalka Shimla Railway Track and 102 remain in use. The longest tunnel is at Barog. Engineer Colonel Barog dug the tunnel from both ends and could not align them and was symbolically fined one rupee. He couldn't live with the shame and committed suicide inside the incomplete tunnel.[8] Chief Engineer H.S. Herlington later completed the tunnel with help from Bhalku, a local sadhu.[7][9]"
"The first locomotives to arrive were two class ""B"" 0-4-0ST from the famous Darjeeling Himalayan Railway. These were built as 2 ft (610 mm) gauge engines, but were converted to 2 ft 6 in (762 mm) gauge in 1901. They were not large enough for the job, and were sold in 1908. They were followed by 10 engines with a 0-4-2T wheel arrangement of a slightly larger design, introduced in 1902. These locomotives weighed 21.5 long tons (21.8 t; 24.1 short tons) each, and had 30 in (762 mm) driving wheels, and 12 in × 16 in (304.8 mm × 406.4 mm) cylinders. They were later classified into the ""B"" class by the North Western State Railways. All these locomotives were constructed by the British firm of Sharp, Stewart and Company.[10]"
"On 12 September 2015, a train derailed near Kalka. Two women British passengers were killed and nine were injured.[13]"
Deccan Odyssey India on Wheels The Indian Maharaja
"Krishna dancing over the subdued Kaliya Naag, and his wives asking Krishna for his mercy. From a Bhagavata Purana manuscript, c. 1640. Circa 1 1640"
"Kaliya (IAST:Kāliya, Devanagari: कालिय), in Hindu traditions, was the name of a poisonous Naga living in the Yamuna River, in Vrindavan. The water of the Yamuna for four leagues all around him boiled and bubbled with poison. No bird or beast could go near, and only one solitary Kadamba tree grew on the river bank."
"The proper home of Kāliya was Ramanaka Dwipa, but he had been driven away from there by fear of Garuda, the foe of all serpents. Garuda had been cursed by a yogi dwelling at Vrindavan so that he could not come to Vrindavan without meeting his death. Therefore Kāliya chose Vrindavan as his residence, knowing it was the only place where Garuda could not come."
"Once Krishna and herdboys were playing ball, and while playing Krishna climbed up the Kadamba tree and hung over the river bank, the ball fell into the river and Krishna jumped after it. Kāliya rose up with his hundred and ten hoods vomiting poison and wrapped himself around Krishna's body. Krishna became so huge that Kāliya had to release him. So Krishna saved himself from every attack, and when he saw the Brij folk were so much afraid he suddenly sprang into Kāliya's head and assumed the weight of the whole universe, and danced on the naga's heads, beating time with his feet. Then Kāliya began to die. But then the naga's wives came and prayed to Krishna with joined palms, worshipping Krishna and praying for their husband."
"Kāliya, recognizing the greatness of Krishna, surrendered, promising he would not harass anybody. So Krishna pardoned him and then let him go free to leave the river and go to Ramanaka Dwipa. Ramanaka Dwipa is identified as Fiji.[1]"
"Kaliya Daman, c. 1880."
The history of Krishna and Kāliya is told in Chapter Sixteen of the Tenth Canto of the Bhagavata Purana.
"A king of Kaliraman Jat gotra (clan) in nagavanshi kshatriyas, known as Kaliya, was the ruler near Mathura, on the banks of Yamuna River. The ancient fort of Kaliraman is in ruins near Mathura. His fort was known as fort of Kalidheh. The episode of Mahabharata regarding Lord Krishna’s killing of a black python, Kaliya, is related with some bad ruler from this gotra. With the killing of Kaliya Nāga, Krishna brought the end of this clan’s rule in Brij."
"Krishna standing on serpent Kaliya at Nag Nathaiya festival, Ganges river in Varanasi"
"Statue depicting Kaliya daman. Taken at Swaminarayan Temple, Bhuj, Kutch"
Kaliya
"Banka City Banka Location in Bihar, India Coordinates: 24°53′N 86°55′E﻿ / ﻿24.88°N 86.92°E﻿ / 24.88; 86.92Coordinates: 24°53′N 86°55′E﻿ / ﻿24.88°N 86.92°E﻿ / 24.88; 86.92 Country  India State Bihar Division Bhagalpur District Banka Elevation 79 m (259 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 35,416 Languages  • Official Angika, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 813102 Telephone code 91 6424 Vehicle registration BR-51 Sex ratio 1.17 ♂/♀ Website www.banka.bih.nic.in"
"Banka is a town and a municipality serving as headquarters of the Banka district in the state of Bihar, India. The Hindi meaning of banka is ""brave""."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Banka had a population of 35,416, with 54% males and 46% females. The average literacy rate was 55%, lower than the national average of 59.5%, with 61% of the males and 39% of females literate; 16% of the population was under 6 years of age."
"Banka, Bihar"
"Amarpur अमरपुर city Amarpur Location in Bihar, India Coordinates: 25°02′N 86°54′E﻿ / ﻿25.03°N 86.9°E﻿ / 25.03; 86.9Coordinates: 25°02′N 86°54′E﻿ / ﻿25.03°N 86.9°E﻿ / 25.03; 86.9 Country  India State Bihar District Banka Elevation 58 m (190 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 20,930 Languages  • Official Angika, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 813101"
"Amarpur is a city and a notified area in Banka district in the state of Bihar, India."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Amarpur had a population of 20,930. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Amarpur has an average literacy rate of 42%, lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 61% of the males and 39% of females literate. About 18% of the population is under 6 years of age. It has a small market, having four nationalised banks: UCO, State Bank of India, Bank of India and others. It has a dense population, with most people leading an agriculture-based life. [2]"
"Kakila is a village in the Jagdispur thana of Bihar (India). It falls under Bhojpur District, and it is around 40 kilometers from the District Headquarters Arrah. Kakila provides a view of nature as it is surrounded by greenery, ponds and rivers. [1]"
"It has a population of around 10,000. The major profession of the people residing in this village is agriculture. It has a good mixture of people belonging to different religions and castes. The majority community is Hindu with a Muslim minority (specially of Pashtuns)"
"Ramlila is one of the major attractions performed in this village. Ramlila is performed every year on the occasion of Durga Puja with local villagers playing all the major roles of the play. There is a great history behind the Ramlila organisation in this village. Also, there are lot of musical programmes performed throughout the year on several occasions. The theme of the music is the regional folk songs. ""Chaita"" or ""fagua"" is the main folk song performed specially during the festival Holi. Also, The world famous Chhath songs can be heard in the Chhath Puja season."
"Jagdispur subdistrict Jagdispur Location in Bihar, India Coordinates: 25°28′N 84°25′E﻿ / ﻿25.467°N 84.417°E﻿ / 25.467; 84.417Coordinates: 25°28′N 84°25′E﻿ / ﻿25.467°N 84.417°E﻿ / 25.467; 84.417 Country  India State Bihar District Bhojpur Elevation 53 m (174 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 32,447 Languages  • Official Hindi, Bhojpuri Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 802 158 Telephone code 916181 Website jagdispur.com"
"Jagdispur (Commonly spelled: Jagdishpur, Hindi: जगदीशपुर) is a subdivision of the district Bhojpur of the state of Bihar in eastern India. Having a golden historical background, this great historical place is related to the Babu Veer Kunwar Singh, the great freedom fighter of 1857. The sub-division occupies an area of 2,474 km2 (955 sq mi) and has a population of 212541 (as of 2001)."
"Jagdishpur has a very long historical background in the freedom movement of India. The King who ruled here was ""Veer Kunwar Singh""(1856–1858), born in 1777, succeeded to throne in 1826, village ""Dulaur"" was most loveable village of Veer Kunwar Singh. This throne comprised two praganas and several Tulkas of Sahabad District. The total annual income of the estate was about rupees six lakhs. But several factors, including family litigations, extravagant living, generosity beyond his means and, above all, the machinations of his own staff with unscrupulous creditors, combined to put the estate under ruinous debts which amounted to rupees twenty lakhs on the eve of the Rising of 1857. He played a prominent part in the events of 1857/1858, he fought in the battle of Kanpur. Subsequently, he arrived in Lucknow, where the King of Awadh awarded him a robe of honour and a farman for the area comprising the Azamgarh district. He decided in April 1858 to return to his home district. Fighting a careful rearguard action, he crossed the Ganges at Sheopur Ghat, and re-entered Jagdishpur on 22 April 1858. During his fight when he was returning, he was injured by a bullet in his right hand which he had to cut. Thus he lost his right hand during his fight with Britishers. On 23 April 1858, he conquered his fort and hoisted the flag of India at the place of the flag of Britain."
20 Km. far from Ara city.
"Mullana Mulana City Mullana Show map of Haryana Mullana Show map of India Location in Haryana, India Coordinates: 30°09′01″N 77°01′27″E﻿ / ﻿30.1502°N 77.0242°E﻿ / 30.1502; 77.0242Coordinates: 30°09′01″N 77°01′27″E﻿ / ﻿30.1502°N 77.0242°E﻿ / 30.1502; 77.0242 Country  India State Haryana District Ambala Elevation 264 m (866 ft) Languages  • Official Hindi, Punjabi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 1330xx,1340xx Telephone code 0171 Vehicle registration HR01(private), HR37(commercial) Sex ratio 869/1000 Website ambala.nic.in"
"Mullana (/əmˈbɑːlə/) is a village in Ambala district in the state of Haryana, India, located on the border with the state of Punjab and in proximity of the state capital Chandigarh."
"It is also a assembly constituency and the location of Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana.[1]"
"Bhadkal Gate is a structure in Aurangabad City in Maharashtra, India. This gate is the biggest in the city. It was built by Ahamadnagar's Murtaza Nizamshah's vajir Malik Ambar in memory of victory against the Mughals in 1612. It is also known as Victory Gate.[1][2][3]"
The monument is listed under State Protected Monuments of Maharashtra as compiled by Archaeological Survey of India.[4]
Bhadkal Gate
Aim
State Schemes
"The Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) (IAST: Pradhān Mantrī Grām Saḍak Yōjanā) (Hindi: प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना, English: Prime Minister's Rural Roads Scheme) is a nationwide plan in India to provide good all-weather road connectivity to unconnected villages.[1]"
This Centrally Sponsored Scheme[2] was introduced in 2000 by the then-prime minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Prabhjot Singh.[3] The Assam Tribune has reported that the scheme has started to change the lifestyle of many villagers as it has resulted in new roads and upgrade of certain inter-village routes in Manipur.[4]
"The PMGSY is under the authority of the Ministry of Rural Development and was begun on 25 December 2000.[5] It is fully funded by the central government. Recently it has been announced that the project will be funded by both the central government (60%) and states (40%), after a recommendation by state finance officials.[6]"
"Between 2011 and 2014, the average speed of road construction under the PMGSY was 70–75 kilometers per day. From 2014 to 2016, the average speed of construction rose to 100 km per day. In the first 5 months of 2016, an average of 139 km of roads were constructed per day.[7]"
Some numbers from IndianStat [8]
The aim was to provide roads to all villages
"with a population of 1000 persons and above by 2003 with a population of 500 persons and above by 2007 in hill states, tribal and desert area villages with a population of 500 persons and above by 2003 in hill states, tribal and desert area villages with a population of 250 persons and above by 2007.[9]"
Mukhya Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (Maharashtra)[11]
"Siba State, was a small independent Indian hill state in the Lower Himalayas. It was centered on the town of Dadasiba, Pragpur tehsil, Kangra district, in modern-day Himachal Pradesh. The state was founded in 1450. In 1849 the territory of Datarpur was added to Siba Jagir( 1/3 part of land of Mian Devi Singh) and annexed by the British Raj as 'Dada-Siba'.[1]"
"Siba State was founded by Raja Sibarna Chand, a younger brother of the Raja of Guler State about 1450. The state was seized by Guler State in 1808. In 1813 it was untouched by Ranjit Singh of Lahore Sikh Empire of Pañjab (Punjab), although divided into two parts, one part was left for Raja Govind Singh as Princely state for his sustenance and the second one third part was left for Mian Devi Singh, cousin of Raja Gobind Singh. The native Raja's rule was restored by the British in 1830. The Dadu Siba (Jagir) was annexed by the British in 1849.After the death of Raja Ram Singh son of Raja Gobind Singh,Siba State became abandoned as Raja Ram Singh was issueless and his bother Sunder Singh,after revolt, left the thorn and settled in Tantpalan,Hoshiarpur[2]"
The rulers of Siba State are Katoch of Sibaia Clan and had the title Raja.[3] The present titular Raja of Siba State is Raja Dr.Ashok K. Thakur from the linage of Raja Gobind Singh and present titular Raja of Dada-Siba(Jagir) is Raja Brijender Singh from the linage of Mian Devi Singh.
Publication history
"The Lottery Ticket An illustration The Lottery Ticket drawn by George Roux. It was also published in USA under the title Ticket No. ""9672"". Author Jules Verne Original title Un Billet de loterie Translator Laura E. Kendall Illustrator Georges Roux Country France Language French Series The Extraordinary Voyages #28 Genre Adventure novel Publisher Pierre-Jules Hetzel Publication date 1886 Published in English 1887 Preceded by Mathias Sandorf Followed by Robur the Conqueror"
Note: Anton Chekhov (1860–1904) has also written a short story called The Lottery Ticket.
"Media related to Ticket No. ""9672"" at Wikimedia Commons"
Important destinations
Major connections
Widening and Concretization
The Sion Panvel Expressway is a 25 km Indian highway connecting the Sion to Panvel via Navi Mumbai in the state of Maharashtra.[1] It is one of the busiest and most important roads in the Mumbai Metropolitan Area and connects Mumbai with the city of Pune. National Highway 4 and Mumbai Pune Expressway meet the eastern end of Sion Panvel Highway at Kalamboli junction near Panvel. The highway is also used by vehicles traveling towards Mumbai from Konkan and Goa.
"As of September 2014, stretch of the highway east of Vashi Bridge within the city of Navi Mumbai has been fully widened and concretized to 10 lanes (5 lanes in each direction).[2] New flyovers have been built at Sanpada railway station, Nerul, Uran phata and Kamothe. A toll plaza built between Kamothe and Kharghar for recovering the construction cost was controversially opened on January 6, 2015 after much delay[3] as the BJP-led Maharashtra state government admitted that it was not in a position to abolish the toll.[4] Heavy traffic snarls were reported in the initial days as workers of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena vandalized the toll booths.[5] One-way toll for motor vehicles has been set at ₹ 30."
Following major highways cross the Sion Panvel Highway
Mumbai Pune Expressway and National Highway 4 at Kalamboli junction Thane–Belapur road at Turbhe Palm Beach Marg at Vashi Mankhurd-Ghatkopar link road at Mankhurd Eastern Express Highway at Sion
Vashi New Panvel Sanpada Panvel Turbhe Nerul CBD Belapur Kharghar Kamothe Kalamboli Ghatkopar Chembur Deonar Mankhurd Bhabha Atomic Research Centre
The stretch of road from BARC Junction to Kalamboli Junction is about 25 kilometres in length. Total Project cost Rs. 825 Crore (Based on DSR of 2006-2007). Base Construction cost Rs. 675 Crores
Sion Panvel Highway
"Panipat Elevated Expressway is an Indian elevated expressway located in Panipat, Haryana. The expressway was built to ease the traffic on NH-1 between Delhi and Amritsar. It is 10 km long.[1] This build-operate-transfer (BoT) project has been executed by L&T Panipat Elevated Corridor Limited (L&T PECL).[2]"
References
Panipat Elevated Expressway
After cricket
Cricket career
"Bharath Reddy Personal information Born 12 November 1954 (1954-11-12) (age 62) Chennai, India Batting style Right-hand bat Role Wicket-keeper Career statistics Competition Tests ODIs FC LA Matches 4 3 95 18 Runs scored 38 11 1743 120 Batting average 9.50 - 17.78 17.14 100s/50s -/- -/- 0/9 0/0 Top score 21 8* 88 36 Balls bowled - - - - Wickets - - - - Bowling average - - - - 5 wickets in innings - - - - 10 wickets in match - n/a - n/a Best bowling - - - - Catches/stumpings 9/2 2/- 171/50 10/2 Source: Cricinfo, 17 March 2014"
"Bharath Reddy  pronunciation  (born 12 November 1954, in Chennai) is a former Indian cricketer."
"Reddy toured England with an Indian Schools XI in July and August 1973, scoring a century against a Midland Counties schools team.[1] He made his first-class debut a few weeks later for Vazir Sultan Tobacco Colts XI at the age of 18, captaining a team of nine other first-class debutants.[2] In quick succession he then kept wicket for Rest of India in the Irani Cup and for South Zone in the Duleep Trophy before making his Ranji Trophy debut for Tamil Nadu, all before the end of 1973. Before the 1973-74 season was out he had also played two first-class matches for an Indian XI against Rest of India, and made a short tour of Sri Lanka with an Indian team as the reserve wicket-keeper to Pochiah Krishnamurthy, playing in the match against Sri Lanka Board President's XI.[3]"
"Neither Reddy nor Krishnamurthy succeeded Farokh Engineer when he retired from Test cricket shortly afterwards, however, the selectors preferring Syed Kirmani. Reddy kept wicket in one of the three matches India played against Sri Lanka in 1975-76, and as Kirmani's deputy he toured Australia in 1977-78 and Pakistan in 1978-79. He got his chance in Test cricket when Kirmani was dropped and Reddy toured England as the first-choice wicket-keeper in 1979. He played in all four Tests in a series that India lost one-nil, but was not impressive.[4] Reddy toured Australia and New Zealand as Kirmani's deputy in 1980-81 without playing a Test."
"He played three One Day Internationals between 1978 and 1981, against Pakistan, Australia and New Zealand."
"His best season with the bat was 1981-82, when he made 326 runs at 32.60 with three fifties,[5] including his highest career score of 88 against Kerala.[6]"
He captained Tamil Nadu from 1982-83 to 1985-86. Against Kerala in 1982-83 he took six catches in the second innings and eight in the match.[7]
"After retiring from cricket, Reddy worked for Chemplast. He also helped to run cricket training camps in Chennai, where he discovered Indian Test players Dinesh Karthik and Lakshmipathy Balaji.[8]"
"His daughter Sriya Reddy, an actress in South Indian films, married film producer Vikram Krishna in 2008."
Kurnool Feeder Expressway is a proposed greenfield expressway road in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.[1][2] It is being built by the National Highways Authority of India under Phase–VII of National Highways Development Project.
"The cost of project is expected to be ₹27,635 crore (US$4.1 billion).[3] It would cut travel time between Amaravathi and Kurnool by 70 minutes. The expressway will be 4-lane wide with service roads.It was proposed that this road will be designed for a speed of 120 kmph with straight alignments, avoiding habitations and locations of archaeological and religious importance. Tunnels and viaducts are proposed to be constructed to avoid hilly terrains and valley sections.[4]The Express-way will carry all public amenities viz. under passes, service roads, provision for green belt, rest houses, petrol pumps, service centres, restaurants and four agricultural mandis for milk, potatoes, grains, fruits and vegetables etc."
"The expressway would stretch for a length of 104.05 km (64.65 mi) and include 36.71 km (22.81 mi) of service road. It will be connected to Amaravati Anantapur Expressway from Kadapa.It will have a total length of 4 Major bridges, 1 Railway Over Bridges, 4 Interchanges, and 2 km Length of Tunnel.[5]"
Elevated Road
Phase I
Phase II
Phases
"The Chennai Bypass is a full-access controlled expressway that interconnects four radial Indian National Highways around Chennai, India covering a distance of 32 km (20 mi) from Perungalathur(near Tambaram) on NH45 to Madhavaram on NH 5 via Maduravoyal at a cost of ₹ 4,050 million. Constructed as part of the National Highway Development Project to decongest the city of transiting vehicles, the expressway interconnects NH45, NH4, NH205 and NH5. This expressway now forms a part of the circular transportation corridor."
The first phase is 19 km (12 mi) six lane fully access controlled carriageway from Perungalathur on the Grand Southern Trunk Road (NH 45) to Maduravoyal which lies on the Chennai - Bangalore NH-4. A 3-tier trumpet interchange has also been constructed at the starting point at Irumbuliyur. It was inaugurated in April 2008.
The second phase include extending the bypass by 13 km (8.1 mi) from Maduravoyal to Madhavaram on the Chennai - Kolkata NH5 and four-laning it. It also includes 2 interchanges. A clover-leaf grade separator at Maduravoyal Junction and a trumpet interchange at Madhavaram where the bypass phase II ends.
A 3.2 kilometres (2.0 mi) elevated six lane corridor forms the part of the Phase II being executed currently. This elevated road cuts through the Industrial Estate in Ambattur. This corridor ends with a Road over bridge (RoB) crossing the Chennai - Jolarpet railway line. The elevated corridor was completed in June 2009 at a cost of ₹ 1000 million.
"Upper Ganges Canal Expressway, also known as Hindon Expressway, is a planned eight-lane 150-kilometre-long (93 mi)[1] expressway. It is planned to stretch from Bulandshahr to Haridwar through Muzaffarnagar and Roorkee, in India.[2]"
The project
Kurnool Feeder Expressway is a proposed greenfield expressway road in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.[1][2] It is being built by the National Highways Authority of India under Phase–VII of National Highways Development Project.
"The cost of project is expected to be ₹7,293 crore (US$1.1 billion).[3][4] It would cut travel time between Amaravathi and Kurnool by 70 minutes. The expressway will be 4-lane wide with service roads.It was proposed that this road will be designed for a speed of 120 kmph with straight alignments, avoiding habitations and locations of archaeological and religious importance. Tunnels and viaducts are proposed to be constructed to avoid hilly terrains and valley sections.[5]The Express-way will carry all public amenities viz. under passes, service roads, provision for green belt, rest houses, petrol pumps, service centres, restaurants and four agricultural mandis for milk, potatoes, grains, fruits and vegetables etc."
"The expressway would stretch for a length of 123.7 km (76.9 mi) and include 71.7 km (44.6 mi) of service road. It will be connected to Amaravati Anantapur Expressway from Kadapa.It will have a total length of 6 Major bridges, 1 Railway Over Bridges, 4 Interchanges, and 16 km Length of Tunnel.[6]"
"The Bamroli Althan Expressway (also known as Middle Ring Road) is a 7 km (4.3 mi) city highway serving the city of Surat, India. It is one of the busiest and most important roads in the Surat Metropolitan Area and is a part of the Middle Ring Road, Surat. It is generally 6 lanes wide (3 lanes in each direction). It is an East-West artery of Surat connecting the Bamroli to Althan.[1]"
"The Expressway begins at Daksheshwar Junction and stretches up to Althan. It has heavy traffic during rush hours – southbound traffic in the morning rush hour; while westbound traffic during the evenings. It is used by an estimated 20,000 passenger cars daily. The Express Highway is one of the several key roads widened and improved under the Surat Urban Renewal Mission, by firms contracted by the Surat Municipal Corporation."
References
Bamroli Althan Expressway
Religious Sites
Rivers of Jaunpur
"Jaunpur जौनपुर City Shahi bridge, Jaunpur Nickname(s): Jamadagnipura Jaunpur Coordinates: 25°44′N 82°41′E﻿ / ﻿25.73°N 82.68°E﻿ / 25.73; 82.68Coordinates: 25°44′N 82°41′E﻿ / ﻿25.73°N 82.68°E﻿ / 25.73; 82.68 Country India State Uttar Pradesh District Jaunpur Founded 1359 Founded by Feroz Shah Tughlaq Named for Muhammad bin Tughluq, whose given name was Jauna Khan Government  • Jaunpur (Lok Sabha constituency) Krishna Pratap (BJP) Area  • Total 4,038 km2 (1,559 sq mi) Elevation 82 m (269 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 1,80,362  • Rank 43 in UP  • Density 1,113/km2 (2,880/sq mi) Languages  • Official Hindi, Urdu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UP62 Sex ratio 925 females per 1000 males ♂/♀ Website http://jaunpur.nic.in"
Jaunpur (Hindustani pronunciation: [dʒɔːnpʊr]) Hindi: जौनपुर is a city and a municipal board in Jaunpur district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
"Jaunpur is located to the northwest of the district of Varanasi in the eastern part of the North Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Demographically, Jaunpur resembles the rest of the Purvanchal area in which it is located: having good Human development index."
"View at Juanpore, on the River Ganges (1847)[1]"
"Jaunpur historically known as Sheeraz-e-Hind having its historical dates from 1359, when the city was founded by the Sultan of Delhi Feroz Shah Tughlaq and named in memory of his cousin, Muhammad bin Tughluq, whose given name was Jauna Khan.[2][3] In 1388, Feroz Shah Tughlaq appointed Malik Sarwar, an eunuch, who is notorious for having been the lover of Feroz Shah Tughlaq's daughter, as the governor of the region. The Sultanate was in disarray because of factional fighting for power, and in 1393 Malik Sarwar declared independence. He and his adopted son Mubarak Shah founded what came to be known as the Sharqi dynasty (dynasty of the East). During the Sharqi period the Jaunpur Sultanate was a strong military power in Northern India, and on several occasions threatened the Delhi Sultanate."
Silver coin of 32 rattis issued by Ibrahim Shah of Jaunpur.
"It depicts the elephant Citranand attacking another, called Udiya, during the Mughal campaign against the rebel forces of Khan Zaman and Bahadur Khan in 1567."
"The Jaunpur Sultanate attained its greatest height under the younger brother of Mubarak Shah, who ruled as Shams-ud-din Ibrahim Shah (ruled 1402-1440). To the east, his kingdom extended to Bihar, and to the west, to Kanauj; he even marched on Delhi at one point. Under the aegis of a Muslim holy man named Qutb al-Alam, he threatened the Sultanate of Bengal under Raja Ganesha.[4]"
"During the reign of Husain Shah (1456–76), the Jaunpur army was perhaps the biggest in India, and Husain decided to attempt a conquest of Delhi. However, he was defeated on three successive attempts by Bahlul Khan Lodi. It is a dominant trend in modern historiography of the period that this defeat was a cause of a large number of eunuchs in the military ranks. Finally, under Sikandar Lodi, the Delhi Sultante was able to reconquer Jaunpur in 1493, bringing that sultanate to an end."
"The Jaunpur Sultanate was a major center of Urdu and Sufi knowledge and culture. The Sharqi dynasty was known for its excellent communal relations between Muslims and Hindus, perhaps stemming from the fact that the Sharqis themselves were originally indigenous converts to Islam, as opposed to descendants of Persians or Afghans. Jaunpur's independence came to an end in 1480, when the city was conquered by Sikander Lodhi, the Sultan of Delhi. The Sharqi kings attempted for several years to retake the city, but ultimately failed."
"As per provisional data of 2011 census, Jaunpur had population of 1,80,362 of which male and female were 93,718 and 86,644 respectively. The literacy rate was 81.22 .With a sex ratio of 925 female per 1000 male. The district has a population density of 1,113 people per km2.[5]"
"Hiduism dominates the District of Jaunpur with 63.48% of the population registered as Hindus. Religions (Largest three) (Census 2011) 1.Hindus 114,496 2.Muslims 60,017 3.Not Stated 4,891"
See http://www.census2011.co.in/census/district/565-jaunpur.html Hindi and Urdu are the main spoken languages in Jaunpur.
"Gomti, Sai, Varuna, Pili, and Basuhi are the five rivers which make its land fertile.[6]"
"Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh"
Jaunpur Atala Masjid.
Jaunpur Jama Masjid
Economy
Geography
Medical College
"Akbarpur is a city and a municipal board in Ambedkar Nagar district in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. It is the administrative headquarters of Ambedkar Nagar District. Akbarpur is the birthplace of Ram Manohar Lohia (1910–1967), who was a renowned Indian freedom fighter and a socialist political leader."
"Akbarpur, is situated on the banks of Tamsa River. According to Ramayana, it is the place where King Dashratha shot Shravan Kumar, and the place is called Shravan kshetra . The ashram of sage Shringi Rishi was also situated here. According to Ramayana, Lord Rama's son Kusha drives Shravasti. The Rajbhar King drives its eastern part. In Ramayan Lord Rama battled to many Rajbhar Kings. Shiv Baba is a spiritual place where people comes pilgrimage. It is situated just 50 km from holy place Ayodhya."
"The River Tamasa (Tons), divides the city of Ambedkarnagar into the two parts Akbarpur and Shahzadpur, with the latter being the main commercial centre of the city. Lorepur part of Akbarpur City is also noted for the Palace of Lorepur State, and Imambargah of Lorepur State."
"As per provisional reports of Census India, population of Akbarpur in 2011 is 111,594; of which male and female are 57,560 and 54,034 respectively. The sex ratio of Akbarpur city is 939 per 1000 males. In education section, total literates in Akbarpur city are 75,062 of which 42,208 are males while 32,854 are females. Average literacy rate of Akbarpur city is 76.94 percent of which male and female literacy was 83.89 and 69.54 percent. Total children (0-6) in Akbarpur city are 14,037 as per figure from Census India report on 2011. There were 7,247 boys while 6,790 are girls. Child sex ratio of girls is 937 per 1000 boys. Akbarpur city is governed by Municipal Corporation and is situated in Uttar Pradesh State (Chair Person of Municipal Corporation is Mr. Chandra Prakash Verma)/shubheksha marriage hall,owned by mr.puneet srivastava is one of the best banquets in city.it is situated at pahitipur road just facing the new highway ofsultanpur to azamgarh.UT.[1]"
"Government Airstrip, Akbarpur"
Akbarpur Junction
"Highest secondary school in the city is St Peters School and it only ICSE board school in whole district. The condition of higher education has been improved since various colleges have been set up. The Ramabai Government Women Post Graduate College,[2] Akbarpur, was established in 1997 for providing opportunities mainly to rural scholars along with urban scholars in the area of higher education in different streams. BNKB Degree College is one of the private managed and government aided college for co-education, which offers several degree programs. Many Government Secondary schools (Junior High School and Rajkiya Intermediate College) have been opened in the town for providing education opportunities. There is also an ICSE, English medium Inter College named as St. Peter's Inter College, which was founded in 1984 and it celebrated its 25 years of eccellence in 2009. There is also one government medical college (PGI).Recently an engineering college has opened namely ""Mahamaya Engineering College"". www.spsakbarpur.org."
"Mahamaya Rajkiya Allopathic Medical College, a government medical college in Akbarpur, Ambedkar Nagar."
"Ambedkar Nagar is noted for Tanda Terracotta. Major economic activities in the district are power looms and farming. The district also has a thermal power station belonging to the NTPC. There is also a cement manufacturing plant belonging to the Jaypee Group (Jaypee Ayoudha Greeding). The district has one sugar factory called the Akbarpur Sugar Mill, which is situated near Mijhaura, about 10 km from the district headquarters. Many rice mills are present in Akbarpur, there is a Gaurav Agro Industries Pvt. Ltd. (GAIPL) which is the biggest rice mill in Akbarpur, Ambedkarnagar. The name of the proprieter of (GAIPL) is Mr. Rajesh Kumar Upadhyay. It was first established in A.D 2000, it was first named ""Gaurav Industries"" and then named ""Gaurav Agro Industries Pvt. Ltd. (GAIPL)"". There is a power and distribution transformer manufacturing industry named Achal Electricals situated on Dostpur road."
Services
"Faizabad Junction railway station is a junction railway station in Northern India and is well connected with Delhi, Kanpur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Allahabad. Faizabad Junction is one of the two railway junctions in Faizabad city another one is Ayodhya Junction which is situated in the adjacent city of Ayodhya at the south end of Faizabad city on the bank of Ghaghra river (locally known as Saryu river)."
There are intercity train between Faizabad and Lucknow and between Faizabad and Allahabad as well. Some important trains originating from Faizabad and connecting Faizabad to Delhi and Mumbai[1]
"Saket Express is a train that runs twice per week between Faizabad junction and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Mumbai. The train is named after the old name of ancient city of Ayodhya. Saket Express is one of the two trains that connect Faizabad to Mumbai via Sultanpur and Pratapgarh, the other being the Faizabad Superfast Express, which runs once a week via Shahganj and Jaunpur."
See also
"Faizabad Superfast Express is a train which runs weekly connecting Faizabad junction to Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Mumbai. It is one of the two trains connecting Faizabad and Mumbai; the other is the Saket Express, which runs twice a week. It is numbered as 22103/22104."
Timings
Tanda track
"Akbarpur Junction railway station is a junction station between Lucknow and Varanasi. Railway stations near Akbarpur are Shahganj Junction (SHG), Jaunpur Junction(JNU), Goshianganj (GGJ), Malipur (MLPR) and Bilwai (BWI)."
A single track line from NTPC Tanda via Tanda City joins the main line at Akbarpur Railway Station. The Tanda track is exclusively operated by goods trains that supply coal and other goods to Tanda City and Tanda Thermal Power Plant. A service for passenger trains from Akbarpur Junction to Tanda City is under consideration.
"Rajesultanpur राजेसुल्तानपुर Town Nickname(s): RSP Rajesultanpur Location in Uttar Pradesh, India Coordinates: 26°18′17″N 83°4′44″E﻿ / ﻿26.30472°N 83.07889°E﻿ / 26.30472; 83.07889Coordinates: 26°18′17″N 83°4′44″E﻿ / ﻿26.30472°N 83.07889°E﻿ / 26.30472; 83.07889 Country  India State Uttar Pradesh District Ambedaker Nagar Founded by 1807 Named for Shri Raja Singh Government  • Type Nagar Panchayat  • Body Town Aria Area8  • Total 8 km2 (3 sq mi) Area rank 5 Elevation49 145 m (476 ft) Population (2011)30,698  • Total 28,852  • Rank 07  • Density 3,600/km2 (9,300/sq mi) Demonym(s) Indian Languages  • Official Hindi, Awadhi, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 224176 Vehicle registration UP 45"
Rajesultanpur or Raje Sultanpur is a town and Nagar Panchayat in Ambedkar Nagar district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
"Kumarganj town Town Kumarganj town Show map of Uttar Pradesh Kumarganj town Show map of India Location in Uttar Pradesh, India Coordinates: 26°33′11″N 81°50′33″E﻿ / ﻿26.553010°N 81.842512°E﻿ / 26.553010; 81.842512Coordinates: 26°33′11″N 81°50′33″E﻿ / ﻿26.553010°N 81.842512°E﻿ / 26.553010; 81.842512 Country India State Uttar Pradesh District Faizabad Government  • Type census town Area  • Total 3.5 km2 (1.4 sq mi) Elevation 98 m (322 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 19,985  • Density 850/km2 (2,200/sq mi) Languages  • Official Hindi, Awadhi, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 224229 Vehicle registration UP 42 Sex ratio 1000/992 ♂/♀ Website up.gov.in"
Kumarganj is Census Town in Faizabad district state of Uttar Pradesh India. Kumarganj is situated on Faizabad to Raibareli national haighway.
"As of 2011 India census, Kumarganj had a population of 19,990. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Kumarganj has an average literacy rate of 62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 71%, and female literacy is 52%. In Kumarganj, 17% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Jaipur elevated road is an elevated road in the city of Jaipur, in the state of Rajasthan in India.[1]"
Jaipur Elevated Road
Podanur neighbourhood Country  India State Tamil Nadu District Coimbatore Languages  • Official Tamil Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 641023 Vehicle registration TN 37 Telephone code +91-422
"Podanur or Podanoor or Pothanur (Railway Station Code : PTJ)is a neighbourhood in the city of Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, India. Its history goes back to the creation of a major railway station and colony during British rule. The station was a major hub and is functional since 1862, even before Chennai Central.[1]"
Podanur
"Regional Ring Road is a ring road around the city of Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It is a 90-metre-wide (300 ft), 288-kilometre-long (179 mi) road, planned on strengthening the existing road network and by adding new stretches wherever linkages were found missing.[1] It helps connect the districts around city of Hyderabad. It helps in linking major national highways like NH 65, NH 44, NH 163, NH 765."
Major towns connected by RRR
"The major towns and villages are in Sangareddi, Bhuvanagiri, Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy districts."
Progress
"Delhi–Meerut Expressway (Hindi: दिल्ली-मेरठ एक्सप्रेस वे) is an under construction 90 km long controlled-access expressway, connecting Delhi with Meerut via Dasna in Ghaziabad in India. While the present stretch of National Highway 24 (NH-24) up to Uttar Pradesh Gate will be widened to 14 lanes from the present eight, the road between UP Gate and Dasna will be also be fourteen-laned. The next phase of the expressway will be built on a new alignment from Dasna to Meerut—a six-lane stretch joining Meerut bypass.The 28-kilometre (17 mi) stretch between Nizamuddin Bridge and Dasna is one of the most congested areas in the NCR. The traffic flow is likely to increase considering dozens of new residential projects coming up along this stretch of NH-24.[1] The total project cost is ₹78 billion (US$1.2 billion).[2]"
"On 18 November 2013, it was confirmed that center not Uttar Pradesh government will build the much delayed Delhi–Meerut Expressway starting from Nizamuddin Bridge on Ring Road. Once complete, commuters will be able to reach Meerut in 45 to 60 minutes and cut travel time to Haridwar and Dehradun by almost an hour.[1]"
"The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) under the Narendra Modi government approved the Delhi–Meerut Expressway with construction of connected roads to be undertaken. ""There will be six- to eight-laning of NH 24 (Hapur bypass), six laning of NH 58 (Delhi-UP border), six-laning of NH 235 (Delhi-UP). The total cost is about Rs 7,855.87 crore.""[4] The deadline set for the project is three years.[5]"
"Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for 105 km long expressway on May 31, 2016. According to NHAI the entire construction work has been divided into three stages. The first stage will be from Delhi to Dasna (0-27.5 km or 14-lane), while the second stage will be from Dasna to Hapur (27.5 to 49.9 km) on NH-24 (six lane). The third stage will include construction of a 37-km-long new alignment, also called green field alignment. [7] [8]"
Plot
"The Unexpected Guest is a novelization by Charles Osborne of the 1958 play of the same name by crime fiction writer Agatha Christie and was first published in the UK by HarperCollins on September 6, 1999, and on October 1, 1999 in the US by St. Martin's Press."
"The book was written following the successful publication of the novelisation of the 1930 play Black Coffee in the previous year. Like that book, the novelisation is a straightforward transfer of the stage lines and directions of Christie's script into a written narrative. Osborne chose not to add characters, lines or scenes which would alter in any substantial way what had been presented on the stage forty-one years earlier although minor amendments were made to produce suitable chapter endings."
"On a foggy night, a man called Michael Starkwedder breaks down near an isolated house and, entering it, finds the body of a dead man slumped in a chair. A woman stands over the corpse, gun in hand, and confesses to the murder. She gives her name to be Laura Warwick, the wife of the dead man. She explains that he was abusive, and always had his drink. Michael decides not to turn her in to the police, and the two decide to come up with a cover-up story to protect Laura. In the end, the settle on an enemy from the past, by the name of MacGreggor. His son was run over by Richard Warwick, the dead man, several years ago. They slip a paper in Richard's pocket with the date of the accident, saying ""Paid in full."" Then, they stage the murder so it appears to have been recent, alerting the residents of the building."
"Natyanjali is a composition in bharatanatyam choreographed by Sri V. P. Dhananjayan circa 1968. It is in Raga Mallika, tala Mallika, and praises Ganesha, Saraswati, Vishnu, Shiva, and the Gurus in Sanskrit Slokas, each with different talas and ragas."
"Natyanjali denotes to the dance festival at Chidambaram Sri Sabanayagar Temple ( Sri Natarajar temple). Before some 40 years Carnatic music concerts are conducted daily in the 1000 pillar mantap. Legends like Chidambaram S.Jayaraman, Sirkali S.Govindarajan, Sheik Chinnamoulana use to perform voluntarily every day till Thaipoosam."
"Natyanjali is an annual classical Indian dance festival timed to Shiva Ratri. It was introduced at the Chidambaram temple, but nowadays it is also organized at many other temples in Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Chennai, Nagapatinam, Mayavaram, Thirunallar, Thiruvanaikoil, etc. Sri Subramania Samaj, Chhedanagar, Chembur, Mumbai has been conducting Natyanjali for the past many years at their temple complex during Mahasivratri. The festival of dance continues for more than a week and dancers of all styles have been offering their art at the feet of Lord Nataraja. On Sivaratri night senior Gurus, some of them septuagenarians, have been performing year after year."
Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple The gopuram of Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple Location in Singapore Name Proper name Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple Tamil ஸ்ரீ ஸ்ரீநிவாசப்பெருமாள் கோவில் Chinese 斯里尼瓦沙柏鲁马兴都庙 Pinyin Níwǎshā Bòlŭmă Xīngdūmiào Geography Coordinates 1°18′47.8″N 103°51′22.3″E﻿ / ﻿1.313278°N 103.856194°E﻿ / 1.313278; 103.856194Coordinates: 1°18′47.8″N 103°51′22.3″E﻿ / ﻿1.313278°N 103.856194°E﻿ / 1.313278; 103.856194 Country Singapore Location Little India Culture Primary deity Vishnu Architecture Architectural styles Dravidian architecture History and governance Date built 1855 Creator P. Govindasamy Pillai Website SriSrinivasaPerumalTemple
"Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple or Sri Perumal Temple is one of the oldest temples in Singapore. It is located in Little India on Serangoon Road, where its tall Gopuram (tower) shows the different incarnations of Lord Vishnu. This large complex, dedicated to Vishnu, dates from 1855, but the 20-metres-tall Gopuram is a relatively recent addition, built in 1966 at a cost of S$300,000. The temple's five-tier Gopuram was a donation from P. Govindasamy Pillai, one of the earliest Indian migrants who made good. He ultimately set up a chain of popular general goods stores in Little India and was known for his philanthropic works, a legacy continued by his sons today."
"The area around the Perumal Temple was once filled with ponds and vegetable gardens. A stream used to lead into the temple and was an important source for devotees to ritually cleanse themselves before beginning worship. Inside the temple's inner courtyard, a well marks the spot where the stream used to flow. There is also a Tulasi(thulassi) (basil plant), the Hindus' symbolic holy bush."
"Inside the temple you will find a statue of Perumal, or Vishnu, his consorts Lakshmi and Andal, and his bird-mount, Garuda. Perumal Temple is at the centre of the Hindu trinity made up of Brahma the creator, Vishnu the preserver, and Shiva the destroyer. The temple is dedicated to Krishna, one of the incarnations of Vishnu. Perumal is another name for Krishna and statues of him - coloured blue to signify blue-blood - are everywhere in the temple. There are also statues, Lakshmi and Andal, the goddesses of wealth and beauty respectively, and of his mount, the mythical Garuda bird. The temple ceiling is dominated by a colourful circular pattern depicting the nine planets of the universe."
"This temple is the starting point for devotees during the annual Thaipusam festival. Devotees, their tongues and cheeks pierced by great metal skewers supporting kavadi (cage-like constructions decorated with wire and peacock feathers), make their way to the Chettiar Hindu Temple on Tank Road in this colourful procession. This is done in gratitude or supplication to Lord Murugan."
It was gazetted as a national monument in 1978.
"This is a list of lists of Hindu temples by country, in alphabetical order, by continents and countries."
Africa
Asia
Europe
North America
South America
Content
"The Canggal inscription is a Javanese inscription dated to 732, discovered in the Gunung Wukir temple complex in Kadiluwih village, Salam, Magelang Regency, Central Java. The inscription is written in the Pallawa script in the Sanskrit language. The inscription documents an edict of Sanjaya, in which he declared himself the universal ruler of Medang."
"The inscription describes the erection of a lingam (the symbol of Shiva) on the country of Kunjarakunja, by Sanjaya's order. The lingam is sited on the noble island of Yava (Java), which the inscription describes as ""rich in grain and gold mines"".[1]:87–88 Yawadwipa, the inscription says, had long been under the rule of the wise and virtuous king Sanna, but fell after his death into disunity. Amid a period of confusion Sanjaya, son of Sannaha (the sister of Sanna) ascended to the throne. Sanjaya mastered holy scriptures, martial arts, and displayed military prowess. After the conquest of neighboring areas his reign was peaceful and prosperous.[2]"
"The inscription makes reference to Kunjarakunja-desa, perhaps meaning ""the hermitage land of Kunjara"", which has been identified as the hermitage of Rishi Agastya, a Hindu Maharishi revered in Southern India. The Ramayana contains a reference to a visit to Agastya hermitage on Kunjara by Rama, Sita, and Lakshmana."
"The name Sanjaya, Sanna and Sannaha curiously was also mentioned in Carita Parahyangan, a book from later period composed around 16th century which suggested refer to same historical person."
Canggal inscription
"Gangotri, a cow that lived at Bhaktivedanta Manor, was put down by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in December 2007.[1][2][3] The killing of Gangotri is a current issue for the Hindus of England and has led to protest concerning the treatment of cattle in the United Kingdom.[4][5][6]"
The Killing
"On 13 December 2007, RSPCA inspectors and a government vet arrived at the Bhaktivedanta Manor temple in Hertfordshire and killed Gangotri by the administration of a lethal injection. Gangotri was not suffering from any disease but had damaged her hind muscles and could not stand.[7] She was cared for by the temple staff and the temple had employed vets to medically care for her and to monitor her health. The temple, donated in 1973 by George Harrison, runs The Cow Protection Project, a no-kill shelter where cows and bulls are allowed to die naturally. The RSPCA claimed that the cow was suffering however they killed the cow without consultation with the vets treating the cow.[8] They claimed to have consulted with other vets to which temple officials counter that"
Protests and Legal Action
"The temple officials considered legal action against the RSPCA over its actions.[10] The Independent on 28 March 2008 reported that the RSPCA has been sued and the sanctuary claimed ""The RSPCA unlawfully trespassed on temple property and unlawfully trespassed on the life of a cow. The cow was under veterinary care and was recovering. There was absolutely no reason for her to be killed"". [11]"
Apology by the RSPCA
"On 13 December 2008, the RSPCA has apologized for the killing of Gangotri.[13] They also donated a pregnant cow to the sanctuary representing a symbol of reconciliation."
"Kalibari Mandir, Peshawar Om Kalibari Mandir, Peshawar Location within Pakistan Geography Coordinates 34°01′N 71°35′E﻿ / ﻿34.017°N 71.583°E﻿ / 34.017; 71.583Coordinates: 34°01′N 71°35′E﻿ / ﻿34.017°N 71.583°E﻿ / 34.017; 71.583 Country Pakistan State/province Khyber Pakhtunkhwa District Peshwar Culture Primary deity Kali Architecture Architectural styles Hindu temple Number of temples 1 History and governance Governing body Pakistan Hindu Council Website http://www.pakistanhinducouncil.org/"
"Kalibari Mandir, Peshawar is a Hindu temple located in Peshwar in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pakistan. This temple is dedicated to goddess Kali and Durga Puja is the main festival.[1][2][3][4]"
"It is one of the few surviving Hindu temple in Peshawar, along with Goraknath Mandir, Gor Khatri and Dargah Pir Ratan Nath Jee, Jhanda Bazaar. This is the only ongoing functional temple in daily use along with Dargah Pir Ratan Nath Jee, Jhanda Bazaar. Court ordered the Evacuee Trust Property Board to open the Goraknath Mandir, Gor Khatri, which opens once a year on Diwali.[1][2][3][4]"
"Kalibari Mandir, Peshawar"
Deity
Festival
Importance
"Shiv Mandir, Umerkot Umerkot Fort In Umerkot Shiv Mandir, Umerkot Location within Sindh Geography Coordinates 25°21′41″N 69°44′37″E﻿ / ﻿25.3614°N 69.7436°E﻿ / 25.3614; 69.7436Coordinates: 25°21′41″N 69°44′37″E﻿ / ﻿25.3614°N 69.7436°E﻿ / 25.3614; 69.7436 District Umerkot Division Culture Primary deity Shiva Important festivals Shiv Ratri Architecture Architectural styles Hindu temple Number of temples 1 History and governance Governing body Pakistan Hindu Council Website http://www.pakistanhinducouncil.org/"
"Shiv Mandir is a Hindu temple situated in Umerkot, Near Rana Jahangeer Goth, in Sindh, Pakistan.[1] In a way there also comes Hazrat Nimano Shah Dargah."
This temple is divine and sacred among the Hindus residing in lower Sindh. It also provides shelter to many of the pilgrim in their miseries.
"The temple has magnificent Shiv Lingam, which is indeed one of the best in the whole world. Legend says that the Lingam kept growing itself until locals marked the height to literally observe the growth."
"Besides every year on Maha Shivaratri there is a huge three-day festival with several hundred thousand pilgrims from surrounding cities.On Maha Shivratri, Shiv Mela Also take place it comprises different entertaining deeds and it also has several programs for the awareness of people about the Maha Shivratri And the history of the Shiv Mandir. On Maha Shivratri many Pilgrim from lower and upper Sindh come there and most of them stay the three days long till the festival ends. It is also a place for tourists even it is one of the oldest Hindu's worship places."
"It has been said that almost thousands of years ago a man used to nourish cows there, there was wide grown grass so that man used to came there and nourish the cows but one day he noticed that a cow used to go somewhere else and gives her milk to that Lingam which was not so much out of the land that time. The man keep observing many days that what is there and why she is giving her milk to that Lingam. Then people came there and checked then they considered that as a Shiv Lingam and built the Shiv Mandir.( Not confirmed whether it is real or fake but rumors are this )."
"Sadh Belo (Sindhi: ساڌ ٻلو‎), or Sat, is an island in the Indus River near Sukkur, Sindh, Pakistan."
"Sadh Belo is an island downstream of Bukkur island and separated from it by a short stretch of river. The island with its two inlets, Sadh Belo and Din Belo, is shown on the official map of 1893-4; in 1912 it was accurately surveyed on the orders of the Collector."
Demography
Sindhi are settled in Sadh Belo and the surrounding countryside. The majority of the population is Muslim with a significant Hindu minority.
Hindu temple
"There is a Hindu temple on the island, founded in 1823 by Swami Bakhandi Maharaj Udasi; the gaily-painted buildings are, however, more or less modern. The place is held in high esteem by Hindus throughout Sindh and even in India, occasionally attracting pilgrims from across the border.[1]"
External links
Mention in literature
Tilla Jogian temple complex
"Tilla Jogian Hindu temple complex 1st-century BC Tilla Jogian Hindu temple complex Tilla Jogian Hindu temple complex Hindu temple at Tilla Jogian Geography Coordinates 33°23′59″N 73°17′59″E﻿ / ﻿33.3997°N 73.2997°E﻿ / 33.3997; 73.2997Coordinates: 33°23′59″N 73°17′59″E﻿ / ﻿33.3997°N 73.2997°E﻿ / 33.3997; 73.2997 Country Pakistan State Punjab District Mandi Bahauddin District, Gujrat District, Jhelum District and Chakwal District Location Salt Range Culture Primary deity Shiva, Surya"
"Tilla Jogian (in Punjabi ٹلہ جوگیاںUrdu: ٹلہ جوگیاں‎), location of Tilla Jogian temple complex - a 1st-century BC[1] Hindu and Sikh holy site, is the highest peak in the eastern Salt Range in Punjab, Pakistan."
"At 975 meters (3200 ft) above sea level, Tilla Jogian is about 25 km to the west of Jhelum city and 10 km west of the model village of Khukha. The view from the top of Tilla is highly rewarding. Rohtas, Pakistan Fort is located to the east of Tilla Jogian at a distance of about 7 km from Dina, a rapidly expanding town on the Grand Trunk Road."
"Tilla Jogian mountain peak can be seen from districts of Mandi Bahauddin, Gujrat, Jhelum and Chakwal. It is situated on a commanding place near the Jhelum River. From its height of 3200 feet, you can see a panorama unparalleled in Pakistan."
"Tilla Jogian temple complex has been place of Hindu pilgrimage for at least 2000 years. It was established in 1st century BC by the Guru Gorakhnath of kanphata Jogis.[1] Tilla Jogian in Punjabi means the Hill of Saints. This is where the Kanphata Jogis, who pierced their earlobes and were an order founded by Guru Gorakhnath have left behind a monastery.[2]"
"Tilla Jogian comprises a complex of Hindu mandirs housing at least three baths and a network of waterworks with at least two minor dams. There are number of ways to reach at the top: One from Rohtas Fort side and the other from Sanghoi, the Jhelum River side."
"Murad Baksh, aka Ranjha, the hero of the real life romantic epic story Heer Ranjha came to this place to join the Jogi order. Guru Nanak (1469-1539 CE), founder of Sikh religion, also meditated here for 40 days. Akbar (1542 - 1605 CE), Mughal Emperor visited this place twice in four years to pay homage and built a water tank here.[1] Jahangir (1605 - 1627 CE), Mughal Emperor also paid a visit here. Ahmad Shah Abdali sacked and looted the monastery.[1] Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780 - 1839 CE), visited to pay his respect and constructed a big water pond, which still survives in good condition, he also built a monument on the spot where Guru Nanak had meditated for 40 days, which has been vandalized, by making small opening in its north wall and a bit of the domed roof broken, but by late 2005 the damage had been enlarged and the floor uprooted. The British made a road and a pond here for water. The Hindu temple complex and matha (Hindu monastery) lies in ruins.[1]"
"Tilla Jogian also finds mention in the epic love poem Heer Ranjha of Waris Shah. Ranjha, the story's protagonist, who when spending his time on the rebound, sublimating his love and passion in the spiritual world, came here for consolation and got his ears ringed here as was the tradition of Guru Goraknath's followers.[3]"
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif visited Tilla Jogian and did some protective work for the safety of its pristine beauty.
Tilla Jogian
Madangopal Jiu Temple The temple in its early days. Madangopal Jiu Temple Location in West Bengal Name Other names Gopaler Mondir (গোপালের মন্দির) Proper name Madangopal Jiu Temple Devanagari मदनगोपाल जीऊ मंदिर Sanskrit transliteration Madanagōpala jī'ū Mandira Bengali মদনমোহন জীউ মন্দির Geography Coordinates 22°28′00″N 87°54′21″E﻿ / ﻿22.4668°N 87.9057°E﻿ / 22.4668; 87.9057Coordinates: 22°28′00″N 87°54′21″E﻿ / ﻿22.4668°N 87.9057°E﻿ / 22.4668; 87.9057 Country India State West Bengal Locale Mellock Culture Primary deity Radha and Madangopala Important festivals Janmastami and Holi Architecture Number of temples 1 Number of monuments 1 History and governance Date built 17th Century AD
"Madangopal Jiu Temple (Bengali: মদনগোপাল জীউ মন্দির ) is a temple in the village of Mellock, near Samta, in the Indian state of West Bengal. The temple is also locally known as Gopaler Mondir, the temple of Gopala."
"The temple is a terracotta ornamented aatchala (roof with 8 slopes). It was built in the 17th century AD by Mukundaprasad Roychoudhury, a descent of the Roychowdhury Zamindars of Mellock."
Madangopal Jiu Temple
External references
"Udayagiri Village Udayagiri fort Udayagiri Show map of Andhra Pradesh Udayagiri Show map of India Location in Andhra Pradesh, India Coordinates: 14°52′00″N 79°19′00″E﻿ / ﻿14.8667°N 79.3167°E﻿ / 14.8667; 79.3167Coordinates: 14°52′00″N 79°19′00″E﻿ / ﻿14.8667°N 79.3167°E﻿ / 14.8667; 79.3167 Country  India State Andhra Pradesh District Nellore District Elevation 230 m (750 ft) Languages  • Official Telugu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 524 226 Telephone code 08620 Vehicle registration AP-26"
Udayagiri is a Mandal in the Nellore district of the state of Andhra Pradesh in India.[1]
Udayagiri is located at 14°52′00″N 79°19′00″E﻿ / ﻿14.8667°N 79.3167°E﻿ / 14.8667; 79.3167.[2] It has an average elevation of 230 meters (757 feet).
"First known history of the city was from 14th century. It was the capital of local kingdom of Langula Gajapati, chieftain to Gajapatis of Orissa. It came under rule of Krishna Deva Raya of Vijayanagara around 1512. The Udayagiri fort, constructed by Langula Gajapati was inaccessible on most sides. It could be only penetrated only by a jungle track in the east side and a pathway on the west side. The siege by Krishna Deva Raya lasted for 18 months and resulted in defeat for Prataparudra of the Gajapatis."
"During the reign of Gajapatis and the Vijayanagara Empire, the fort was extended. The entire city and the surrounding hill of 1000 feet height were encircled with walls. The fort consisted of thirteen buildings, with eight of them on the hill and five below. It also consisted of several beautiful temples and gardens."
"After the fall of the Vijayanagara Empire, it was ruled by chieftains of Golconda. The mosque on top of the hill has two Persian inscriptions that credits the construction of the mosque and the planting a nearby garden to Shaik Husain, chieftain to Sultan Abdullah of Golconda. Then it came under the rule of Nawabs of Arcot, who granted the title of Jagir to Mustafa Ali Khan. His descendants controlled it till 1839, until they were deported by Nawabs again to Chengalpet for their treason."
"This town is known as ""Nawabi Adda"", as this was ruled by the Nawabs and the Muslim population is very high in this town. The town people mostly follow Islam and Hindu religions. Languages spoken are Telugu and Urdu."
"Udayagiri, Andhra Pradesh"
Education
House of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay
Notable people
"Samta Village Samta panorama from a house's terrace during sunset Samta Show map of West Bengal Samta Show map of India Location in West Bengal, India Coordinates: 22°28′19″N 87°54′29″E﻿ / ﻿22.4720338°N 87.90793059999999°E﻿ / 22.4720338; 87.90793059999999Coordinates: 22°28′19″N 87°54′29″E﻿ / ﻿22.4720338°N 87.90793059999999°E﻿ / 22.4720338; 87.90793059999999 Country  India State West Bengal District Howrah Languages  • Mostly Spoken Bengali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 711324 Telephone code 03214 Lok Sabha constituency Uluberia"
"Samta (pronounced: Bengali pronunciation: [ʃaːmt̪ aː]) is a village and a gram panchayat in the Howrah district of the Indian state of West Bengal, on the banks of the Rupnarayan River."
"Samta's history dates back to centuries. During British Raj Samta was ruled by the Roys, who were the Zamindars of the village, subordinate to the Bardhaman Raj Estate, in turn subordinate to the British Empire."
Samta is located on the fertile plains of the Rupnarayan River. It is situated about one kilometer (0.62 miles) away from the banks of the river.
"The majority of the village's population is Hindu. Festivals such as Dol Jatra, Durga Puja, Bengali New Year, Kali Puja, Neel Shashti, Shivaratri, Shitala Puja, Saraswati Puja, Itu Puja, Janmashtami and other Hindu religious festivals are celebrated with great pomp and show. Gajans are also held in the village."
"Madangopal Jiu Temple, a temple built in the 17th century, is situated in Mellock, a nearby village located south of Samta. It is locally known as Gopaler Mondir (meaning, the temple of Gopala). It was erected by Mukundaprasad Roychowdhury, a member of the family of Mellock's Roychowdhury Zamindars."
"There are very few schools in Samta such as Samta Sarat Chandra Uccha Balika Bidyalay, Samta Primary School. More schools could be found the neighbouring villages, which includes- Panitras High School (H. S.), Children's Institution and Vivekananda Institution in Panitras. However, no college has been so far established in Samta and its neighbouring villages. The education seekers have to travel to Bagnan to have higher educations."
"Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay, a Bengali novelist and short story writer of the Bengali renaissance lived in Samta for many years. He was born into poverty in Debanandapur, Hooghly, but he spent the later years of his lifetime in Samta after living in Shibpur. His house in Samta is shown as Sarat Chandra Kuthi, on the map of Samta. He had good bonds with the fishermen and washermen of the village, who were considered to be of low class. So the Zamindar separated him from the village and demarcated the area surrounding his house. And the place where he lived came to be known as Samtaber. However, he was revered by the locals."
"Soreng city Soreng Show map of Sikkim Soreng Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°10′N 88°12′E﻿ / ﻿27.17°N 88.20°E﻿ / 27.17; 88.20Coordinates: 27°10′N 88°12′E﻿ / ﻿27.17°N 88.20°E﻿ / 27.17; 88.20 Country  India State Sikkim District West Population (2011)  • Total no informatation Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
Soreng (Nepali: सोरेङ) is a small town in the West Sikkim district of the north-east Indian state of Sikkim.
"Soreng is known for its largest production of vegetables, oranges and flowers. The inhabitants are mostly dependent on agriculture, floriculture and tourism for their livelihood and are mostly Nepali. The majority of the community follow Hinduism and Buddhism while the rest are Christians."
Soreng
"Kabi Longstock town Kabi Longstock Show map of Sikkim Kabi Longstock Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°23′54″N 88°36′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.3983°N 88.6090°E﻿ / 27.3983; 88.6090Coordinates: 27°23′54″N 88°36′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.3983°N 88.6090°E﻿ / 27.3983; 88.6090 Country  India State Sikkim Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
"Kabi Longstock is a town in the North Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim, approximately 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) north of the capital Gangtok. The town is the location of the site where a friendship treaty was signed between the Lepcha chief Tekung Tek and the Bhutia chief Khey Bum Sar.[1] The location of the signing is marked by a stone pillar. It also has a small Buddhist monastery."
New Sikkim Railway Project
Majitar Village Majitar Show map of Sikkim Majitar Show map of India Coordinates: 27°11′22″N 88°29′52″E﻿ / ﻿27.1894°N 88.4978°E﻿ / 27.1894; 88.4978Coordinates: 27°11′22″N 88°29′52″E﻿ / ﻿27.1894°N 88.4978°E﻿ / 27.1894; 88.4978 Country India State Sikkim District East Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Climate Cwa
Majitar is a small village in East Sikkim in the Indian state of Sikkim. The nearest towns are Rangpo (4 kilometres (2.5 mi) away) and Singtam (7 kilometres (4.3 mi)). It is about 200 metres (660 ft) above sea level giving it a sub-tropical climate.
"Majitar has a large population of Nepalese, Bhutia, Marwari and Bengali people. Although there are students from all over the country, mainly Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Guwahati live there at Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology. Nepali is the predominant language but because of the presence of student from all over the country, people speak Hindi too."
Majitar is located at 27°11′22″N 88°29′52″E﻿ / ﻿27.1894°N 88.4978°E﻿ / 27.1894; 88.4978.
A rail link from Sevoke is under construction.[1]
Majitar
"Rakai Pikatan was a king of the Sanjaya dynasty Medang Kingdom in Central Java who built the Prambanan temple, dedicated to Shiva, which was completed in 856 AD."
"Rakai Pikatan was married to the princess Pramodhawardhani, the daughter of the Sailendran king Samaratunga. Pikatan fought his brother in law Balaputra, forcing him to move to Srivijaya in 856.[1]:108"
"According to the interpretation of Loro Jonggrang legend, Pramodhawardhani's likeness was the model for Durga's image in the Prambanan temple."
Rakai Pikatan
"Pramodhawardhani (also known as Çrī Kahulunnan or Çrī Sanjiwana) was the queen consort of king Rakai Pikatan (r. 838-850) of Medang Kingdom in 9th century Central Java. She was the daughter of Sailendran king Samaratungga (r. 812—833).[1]:108 Her royal marriage to Pikatan, the prince of Sanjaya dynasty, was believed as the political reconciliation between Buddhist Sailendra with Hindu Sanjaya dynasties."
"She was credited for the inauguration of Borobudur and the construction of several buddhist temples in Prambanan Plain; among others the small pervara temples in Sewu compound, Plaosan and Sajiwan buddhist temples. Her name was mentioned in several inscriptions, such as Karangtengah inscription, Tri Tepusan inscription and Rukam inscription. Tri Tepusan inscription dated 842 mentioned about the sima (tax-free) lands awarded by Çrī Kahulunnan to ensure the funding and maintenance of a Kamūlān called Bhūmisambhāra (Borobudur).,[2] while the Rukam inscription dated 829 Saka (907 CE) mentioned about the inauguration of Rukam village restoration by Nini Haji Rakryan Sanjiwana, previously the village was being devastated by volcanic eruption, and the obligation of Rukam village inhabitants to take care of a sacred building located in Limwung. This sacred building was identified as Sajiwan temple."
Trekking and access
Worship
"Tungnath Tungnath Location in Uttarakhand Name Proper name Tungnath Temple Geography Coordinates 30°29′22″N 79°12′55″E﻿ / ﻿30.48944°N 79.21528°E﻿ / 30.48944; 79.21528Coordinates: 30°29′22″N 79°12′55″E﻿ / ﻿30.48944°N 79.21528°E﻿ / 30.48944; 79.21528[1] Country India State Uttarakhand Elevation 3,680 m (12,073 ft) Architecture Architectural styles North Indian architecture History and governance Date built Unknown Creator Pandavas"
"Tungnath is the highest Shiva temple in the world and is one of the five and the highest Panch Kedar temples located in the mountain range of Tunganath in Rudraprayag district, in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. The Tunganath (literal meaning: Lord of the peaks) mountains form the Mandakini and Alaknanda river valleys. Located at an altitude of 3,680 m (12,073 ft), and just below the peak of Chandrashila, Tungnath temple is the highest Hindu shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva. The temple is believed to be 1000 years old and is the third (Tritiya Kedar) in the pecking order of the Panch Kedars. It has a rich legend linked to the Pandavas, heroes of the Mahabharata epic.[2][3]"
According to Hindu mythology Lord Shiva and his consort Parvati both reside in the Himalayas: Lord Shiva resides at Mount Kailash. Parvati is also called Shail Putri which means 'daughter of hills'.[2]
"The Tunganath myth is indelibly linked to the origin of the Panch Kedar temples built by the Pandavas. The legend states that sage Vyas Rishi advised the Pandavas that since they were culpable of slaying their own relatives (Kauravas, their cousins) during the Mahabharata war or Kurukshetra war, their act could be pardoned only by Lord Shiva. Consequently, the Pandavas went in search of Shiva who was avoiding them since he was convinced of the guilt of Pandavas. In order to keep away from them, Shiva took the form of a bull and went into hiding in an underground safe haven at Guptakashi, where Pandavas chased him. But later Shiva’s body in the form of bull’s body parts rematerialized at five different locations that represent the ""Panch Kedar"" where Pandavas built temples of Lord Shiva at each location, to worship and venerate, seeking his pardon and blessings. Each one is identified with a part of his body; Tungnath is identified as the place where the bahu (hands) were seen: hump was seen at Kedarnath; head appeared at Rudranath; his navel and stomach surfaced at Madhyamaheshwar; and his jata (hair or locks) at Kalpeshwar.[3][4][5][6]"
"Legend also states that Lord Rama, the chief icon of the Ramayana epic, meditated at the Chandrashila peak, which is close to Tungnath. It is also said that Ravana did penance to Shiva, the lord of the peaks, when he resided here.[3]"
"The priest at this temple is a local Brahmin from Makkumath village, unlike the other Kedar temples where the priests are from South India, a tradition set by the eighth century Hindu seer Sankaracharya. It is also said that the Maithani Brahmins officiate as priests at this temple. During the winter season, the temple is closed and the symbolic image of the deity and the temple priests are moved to Mukkumath, which is 19 km (12 mi) from here. It is near Duggalbitha 10 km (6 mi) before Chopta towards Ukhimath.[7][8][9]"
"Tungnath is at the top of the ridge dividing the waters of the Mandakini River (raising from Kedarnath) from those of the Alaknanda River (raising above Badrinath). The Tungnath peak on this ridge is the source of three springs, which form the Akashkamini River. The temple lies about 2 km (1.2 mi) below the Chandrashila Peak (4,000 m (13,123 ft)). The road to Chopta is just below this ridge and hence provides the shortest bridle approach path for trekking to the temple from Chopta, over a short distance of about 4 km (2.5 mi). From the top of the Chandrashila peak, picturseque views of the Himalayan range comprising snow peaks of Nanda Devi, Panch Chuli, Banderpoonch, Kedarnath, Chaukhamba and Neelkanth on one side, and the Garhwal valley on the opposite side could be witnessed. The valley between Chopta and Tunganath temple has wooded hills with rich alpine meadows with rhododendron coppices and also agricultural fields. The rhododendrons, when they are in full bloom during March, display dazzling colours ranging from crimson to pink. A high-altitude botanical station of the Garhwal University is located here. Nearing the top of the temple, there is a forest resthouse at Dugalibitta, just opposite to the Kedarnath range of hills. The Kedaranth Wild Life Sanctuary, also called the Kedarnath Musk Deer Sanctuary, set up in 1972 to preserve the endangered musk deer, which lies in the region, also has a musk deer breeding centre at Kharchula Kharak near Chopta.[10][11][12][13]"
"Other than being a religious destination, Tungnath is also a well known trekking destination. The 4 km (2.5 mi) trek starts from Chopta (9,600 ft (2,926 m)), the nearest place on the NH 58. Chopta is 63 km (39 mi) from Rudraprayag towards Karnaprayag and is reached from Rishikesh via Devprayag, Srinagar and Rudraprayag."
"Of all the Panch Kedar trek routes, the route to Tungnath is the shortest: only 4 km (2.5 mi) from Chopta (on the Ukhimath Gopeshwar road) that can be covered in approximately 3–4 hours (depending on the trekker's physical ability). Trek is a moderate (and sometimes steep) climb (9,600–12,000 ft (2,926–3,658 m)), the trek path is stone paved with benches provided en route at intervals to rest and enjoy the beautiful views of the Chowkhamba, Nanda Devi, Neelkanth and Kedarnath peaks.[10] Generally, the pilgrimage to Tunganath is undertaken as part of the Panch Kedar trekking covering all five temples over a 170 km (105.6 mi) route (road cum trek length) starting from Rishikesh in the order of: Kedarnath, Tungnath, Rudranath, Madhyamaheswar and Kalpeshwar. The few pilgrims who undertake this trekking pilgrimage to the shrine do so in summer months (end April or early May to October) as the temple remains snow bound and unapproachable. During this period even Chopta, the nearest road head remains deserted. But it is said that few adepts come to the area during the winter avoiding the pilgrims. The climb to Chandarshila is for 2 km (1.2 mi).[2][3][10]"
Architecture
References
"Sojiwan (Javanese orthography: Såjiwan, or sometimes spelled Sajiwan) is a 9th-century Mahayana Buddhist temple located in Kebon Dalem Kidul village, Prambanan, Klaten Regency, Central Java. The temple is located nearly two kilometres southeast of Prambanan temple. This temple is among numbers of temples scattered in Prambanan Plain."
"The Rukam inscription dated 829 Saka (907 CE) currently stored in National Museum of Indonesia mentioned about the inauguration of Rukam village restoration by Nini Haji Rakryan Sanjiwana, previously the village was being devastated by volcanic eruption. In return, the inhabitant of Rukam village was obliged to take care of a sacred building located in Limwung. This sacred building was identified as Sojiwan temple, while the name of the royal patron mentioned in this inscription: Nini Haji Rakryan Sanjiwana, was identified as Queen Pramodhawardhani, the temple bears her name Sajiwan and believed to be dedicated for her. The temple was built between 842 and 850 CE, approximately built in the same era with Plaosan temple nearby."
"Sojiwan temple was rediscovered in 1813 by Colonel Colin Mackenzie, a subordinate of Sir Stamford Raffles. He examined the archaeological remains around Prambanan plain and rediscovered the ruins of wall surrounding the temple. The temple was left in ruins for decades until the government launched the reconstruction effort started in 1996. Since 1999 the temple become the training and education center for temple reconstruction project. During the reconstruction the excavation discovered wall strudture surrounding the temple and also stone paved causeway in front of the temple. In 2006 the reconstrustion project was halted and took a major blow because of earthquake, caused the reconstructed building parts and scaffolding collapsed. The reconstruction project completed in December 2011, inaugurated by Mari Pangestu, Indonesian Minister of Tourism and Creative Economy.[1] The reconstruction took 15 years and 8.27 billion rupiah cost."
"The temple was made of andesite stone, its size, style and form is similar to those of Mendut temple near Borobudur. The temple complex measures 8,140 square meters, with main building measures 401.3 square meters and 27 meters high. The base of the temple contains 20 bas-reliefs connected to the Buddhist stories of Pancatantra or Jatakas from India. From these 20 reliefs 19 remain. The stairway is flanked with two large makaras. The inner chamber of the temple contains two niches and lotus pedestals, originally host buddha and boddhisattva statues. However currently the chamber is empty. The temples roof took form of stepped pyramid crowned with stupas."
"During restoration project the excavation works discovered two rows of walls surrounding the temple, located 14 meters and 30 meters from the main temple. Other discovery includes paved pathways, stairs and temple stone block fragments surrounding main temple, suggested that Sojiwan was a temple complex, there were perwara temples (lesser complementary temples) once stood within the temple complex.[2]"
Sojiwan
"Dikchu Village Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°24′06″N 88°31′26″E﻿ / ﻿27.4016°N 88.5238°E﻿ / 27.4016; 88.5238Coordinates: 27°24′06″N 88°31′26″E﻿ / ﻿27.4016°N 88.5238°E﻿ / 27.4016; 88.5238 Country India State Sikkim District North Sikkim Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
Dikchu is a village in the North Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim. The village lies about 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) upstream of the confluence of the Dikchu River with the Teesta River and is the site of the 96 MW Dikchu Hydroelectric Power Project.[1]
"Lingthem is a village in Mangan subdivision, North Sikkim district, Sikkim, India. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given it a geographical code of 260875.[2]"
"Barfok is a village in Mangan subdivision, North Sikkim district, Sikkim, India. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given it a geographical code of 260885.[1]"
"Nayabazar city Nayabazar Show map of Sikkim Nayabazar Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°08′46″N 88°16′44″E﻿ / ﻿27.1462°N 88.2789°E﻿ / 27.1462; 88.2789Coordinates: 27°08′46″N 88°16′44″E﻿ / ﻿27.1462°N 88.2789°E﻿ / 27.1462; 88.2789 Country  India State Sikkim District West Population (2011)  • Total 1,235 Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
"Nayabazar is a town in West Sikkim District of the Indian state of Sikkim. Covering an urban area of 0.12 kilometres (0.075 mi), it lies close to the Rangeet River some 109 kilometres (68 mi) by road from the state capital Gangtok."
"as of the 2011 Census of India Rongli had 252 households with a total population of 1,235. Males made up 656 of this figure and females 579 while 136 individuals were under six years of age.[1] In 2001 the population was 996.[2]"
Geography
"Dwarahat town Dwarahat Show map of Uttarakhand Dwarahat Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°47′N 79°26′E﻿ / ﻿29.78°N 79.43°E﻿ / 29.78; 79.43Coordinates: 29°47′N 79°26′E﻿ / ﻿29.78°N 79.43°E﻿ / 29.78; 79.43 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Almora Elevation 1,510 m (4,950 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 11,000 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 263653 Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Dwarahat is a town and a nagar panchayat in Almora district in the state of Uttarakhand, India."
"Dwarahat is located at 29°47′N 79°26′E﻿ / ﻿29.78°N 79.43°E﻿ / 29.78; 79.43.[1] It has an average elevation of 1,510 metres (4954.068 feet)."
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Dwarahat had a population of 2543. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Dwarahat has an average literacy rate of 82%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 86% and, female literacy is 78%. In Dwarahat, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"A Government Engineering College "" Kumaon Engineering College Dwarahat"" established in 1991 in Dwarahat. Kumaon Engineering College is now renamed to Bipin Chandra Tripathi Kumaon Engineering College."
"A Polytechnic College, Degree College, 'Dwarahat Inter College' Dwarahat,Govt. Inter college,M.d tiwari high school dwarahat, Dunagiri Modern school and the best school Shishu Mandir Dwarahat are situated here. Hence it is best education center for regional level since 1880."
"Binoli village Binoli Show map of Uttarakhand Binoli Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°46′45″N 79°15′30″E﻿ / ﻿29.77917°N 79.25833°E﻿ / 29.77917; 79.25833Coordinates: 29°46′45″N 79°15′30″E﻿ / ﻿29.77917°N 79.25833°E﻿ / 29.77917; 79.25833 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Almora Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Coastline 0 kilometres (0 mi) Website uk.gov.in"
"Binoli is a small town in the Almora district in the state of Uttarakhand, India."
The population of Binoli is approximately 770 people. Majority of Bohra Rajput Hindu cast live in Binoli. There is one Golu devta mandir in Binoli village which is very famous in Uttarakhand. It is Located at the top of the Mountain.
"Binoli continues to attract tourists based on its traditional Hindu temples, the natural beauty of the region, and views of the Himalayas."
"'Someshwar' is a beautiful small hilly town and legislative constituency in Almora district of Uttarakhand, India situated in the banks of two rivers viz. Kosi and Sai almost 10 km away from well known tourist place Kausani. The valley of Somshwar is surrounded by peaks known as Jayanti and Airi. Their names are respectively based on two Hindu Goddesses. Someshwar itself is a holy place dedicated to lord Shiva, who is among three top gods of Hindus. Most of citizens of Almora consider Someshwar as the heart of Almora. Its valleys have the flavor of both hills and plains in look but the cold breeze reminds of Himalayas. The topography and availability of natural infrastructure provide an excellent opportunity for development of tourism/ecotourism."
"Someshwar is one of the well connected places of Uttarakhand that is situated in foots of Himalaya. It is developed in the banks of Kosi and Sai rivers. one more river known as Mansa is in the close proximity. Basins of these rivers provide fertile land for agriculture at such a hilly terrain.its villages seems like the typical villages of the bygone era, people are simple and honest and are deeply religious and orthodox."
Sources
Temples and history
"Chaukhutia Town Chaukhutia Show map of Uttarakhand Chaukhutia Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°53′05″N 79°21′05″E﻿ / ﻿29.88472°N 79.35139°E﻿ / 29.88472; 79.35139Coordinates: 29°53′05″N 79°21′05″E﻿ / ﻿29.88472°N 79.35139°E﻿ / 29.88472; 79.35139 Country  India State Uttarakhand Division Kumaun District Almora Languages  • Official Kumaoni Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK 01 Website uk.gov.in"
"Chaukhutia is a town in Almora district of Uttarakhand. It is located on the bank of the river Ramganga. This picturesque place derives its name from a Kumaoni word ""Chau-khut"" which means four feet."
"Kali Temple, popularly known as Agneri Devi Temple, is dedicated to Hindu Goddess Kali, and is situated around one-half km from Chaukhutia in Jaurasi road near Dhudalia village on the bank of Ramganga River. Every year Ashtami Mela (a fair) is organised at the temple. Thousands of people witness a large number of animal sacrifices, mainly buffaloes and goats, in Navratris in the month of March-April. Lakhanpur temple is 6 km from Chaukhutia in Jaurasi-Chaukhutia road. This temple belongs to the Katyuri kings. A small fair is also held here every year in October-November. Vaishno Devi's temple and the ancient forts and ruins of Katyuri dynasty make Chaukhutia interesting for visitors."
How to reach
Overview
"Karṇaprayāga कर्ण प्रयाग Karnprayag, Karna Prayag city The Alaknanda River flowing in from the left meets the Pindar River (center background) to flow on as the Alaknanda again (foreground) at Karnaprayag Karṇaprayāga Show map of Uttarakhand Karṇaprayāga Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°16′N 79°15′E﻿ / ﻿30.27°N 79.25°E﻿ / 30.27; 79.25Coordinates: 30°16′N 79°15′E﻿ / ﻿30.27°N 79.25°E﻿ / 30.27; 79.25 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Chamoli Elevation 1,451 m (4,760 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 6,976 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Karnaprayag is a city and municipal board in Chamoli District in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. Karnaprayag is one of the Panch Prayag (five confluences) of Alaknanda River, situated at the confluence of the Alaknanda, and Pindar River."
"As of the 2001 India census,[1] Karnaprayag had a population of 6976. Males constitute 56% of the population and females make up 44%. Karnaprayag has an average literacy rate of 76%, higher than the national average of 59.5%. Male literacy is 81%, and female literacy is 69%. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Karnaprayag is located at 30°16′N 79°15′E﻿ / ﻿30.27°N 79.25°E﻿ / 30.27; 79.25.[2] It has an average elevation of 1,451 metres (4,760 feet). The confluence of the Pindari River, which arises from the icy Pindari glacier and the Alaknanda, occurs at Karnaprayag. Nanda Devi, towering above at 7,816 m (25,634 ft.), and surrounded by an array of glittering peaks, Trisul, Drona Giri, Narad Ghunti, Mrigathuni and Maiktoli."
"Karnaprayag is one of five sites where the confluence of rivers occurs. The five prayags are Vishnuprayag, Nandprayag, Karnaprayag, Rudraprayag and Devprayag. Allahabad where the Ganges, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati join, is known as Prayag, and is one of the holy places of Hindu pilgrimage. Karnaprayag is believed by many to be the place where Karna of the Mahabharata, was to have worshipped the Sun God. There is an ancient temple, devoted to Uma in Karnaprayag."
"In some versions Karnaprayag is the place where Lord Krishna done the cremation of Karna. When Arjuna used the Anjalika astra on weaponless Karna, who was still trying to lift the sunken chariot wheel, Lord Krishna found that Karna was still alive even though seriously wounded. Lord Krishna found that Dharma-devata, the goddess responsible for protecting Dharma (righteousness) is guarding Karna from death and resisting every arrows send by Arjuna. Krishna and Arjuna found it was impossible to kill Karna as the goddess was protecting Karna personally. Lord Krishna explained to Arjuna that the Dharma-devata herself was protecting Karna from death because of the massive good merit Karna earned by giving charity during his life time and it was impossible even for Lord Shiva to kill Karna. Krishna said wherever Dharma is present there is victory and this time Dharma was with the side of Karna. So Krishna went down from his chariot and appeared as a Brahmin and asked for Karna's punya or merit to him as charity. Karna gave his entire merits as charity to the Brahmin in the form of his blood and once Karna gifted his life's merit to him, Krishna rewarded Karna with the view of Krishna's Vishwaroopa. Krishna told that only this way it was possible to kill Karna and when Karna gave away his life's merit to Krishna, Dharma-devata disappeared. Karna asked Krishna to cremate him in a virgin land where nobody else is present. Then Krishna went back to his chariot and asked Arjuna to take the kill shot on Karna. Later Krishna himself done the cremation of Karna at Karnaprayag.[3]"
The nearest airport is the Jolly Grant Airport near Dehradun 213 km (132 mi) away..
Karnaprayag
"Vishnuprayag is one of the Panch Prayag (five confluences) of Alaknanda River, and lies at the confluence of Alaknanda River and Dhauliganga River, in Chamoli district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. [1] Vishnuprayag derives its name from Vishnu, According to Hindu scriptures, it is the place where Sage Narada meditated, after which Vishnu appeared before him. It is near to Kagbhusandi Lake.[2]"
"It is located at 30°20′N 79°20′E﻿ / ﻿30.34°N 79.34°E﻿ / 30.34; 79.34. Its original name is Vishnuprayāg.[3] It has an average elevation of 1,372 metres."
"The Alaknanda River, which originates in the eastern slopes of glacier fields of Chaukhamba, is joined by the Saraswathi River near Mana, and then flows in front of the Badrinath temple. It then meets the Dhauli Ganga River, which originates from the Niti Pass, to form the Vishnuprayag. This stretch of the Alaknanda River is called the Vishnu Ganga. Legend narrates the worship offered by sage Narada to god Vishnu at this confluence. An octagonal shaped temple is located near the confluence that is dated to 1889, and is credited to the Maharani of Indore - Ahalyabai. A stairway from this temple leads to the confluence."
Places nearby
Vishnuprayag Hydro Electricity Project
This project is owned by Jaypee Industries and is around 12 km in length. The project produces 400MW. The project is located at Hanuman Chatti near Vishnuprayag.[4]
"The Badrinath temple is the main attraction in the town. According to legend Shankara discovered a black stone image of Lord Badrinarayan made of Saligram stone in the Alaknanda River. He originally enshrined it in a cave near the Tapt Kund hot springs.[6][7] In the sixteenth century, the King of Garhwal moved the murti to the present temple.[6] The temple is approximately 50 ft (15 m) tall with a small cupola on top, covered with a gold gilt roof.The facade is built of stone, with arched windows. A broad stairway leads up to a tall arched gateway, which is the main entrance. The architecture resembles a Buddhist vihara (temple), with the brightly painted facade also more typical of Buddhist temples.[8] Just inside is the mandapa, a large pillared hall that leads to the garbha grha, or main shrine area. The walls and pillars of the mandapa are covered with intricate carvings"
Hanuman Chatti
Hanuman Chatti is a temple situated a few kilometers ahead of Vishnuprayag that is dedicated to the god Hanuman.
"Vikramkhol also spelled Bikramkhol is a prehistoric archaeological site located near Jharsuguda, Odisha state, India and lies in Reserved Forest of Belpahar range, at a distance of 12 km from Belpahar. The place is known for prehistoric rock art and rock inscriptions dated around 3000 BCE."
Inscriptions
"The Vikramkhol rock shelter, where the inscriptions found, is dated between 3000 BCE to 4000 BCE. Details about the caves were first published in Indian Antiquary in 1935 by the efforts of historian K.P.Jayaswal.[1] The inscriptions were studied in 1955. The size of the inscriptions is 37 meters in lengths, 5.65 meters in breadth and 8 meters in height.[2] The inscriptions are yet to be studied in detail and some historians link this script to Mohenjedaro script.[3] It is observed that some of inscriptions are painted and then cut in the rock.[4] A replica of the inscription is exhibited in State Museum.[5]"
Neglect
"Some historians have felt that, due to negligence and apathy by Government agencies, the inscriptions are fading out and damaged by vandals. Activities of Coal mines in surrounding hills, industries like sponge iron are putting environmental pressure on this prehistoric archeological site.[1] The rock shelter, where the inscriptions are found, is not fully protected and kept open to atmosphere,[6] giving scope for vandals and visitors to deface the inscriptions.[7] As it is located inside Reserve Forest of Belpahar range, the remote access to the place has also contributed to neglect by Government Agencies.<telegraph2/>"
"Syamsundarpur is a village in Jharkhand, India.[1] It has a population of nearly 2500. Nearby places are Baharagora and Dhalbhumgar."
"Rajpur राजपुर Block Nickname(s): राजपुर Rajpur Show map of Chhattisgarh Rajpur Show map of India Location in Chhattisgarh, India Coordinates: 23°20′06″N 83°24′47″E﻿ / ﻿23.335°N 83.413°E﻿ / 23.335; 83.413Coordinates: 23°20′06″N 83°24′47″E﻿ / ﻿23.335°N 83.413°E﻿ / 23.335; 83.413 Country  India State Chhattisgarh District Balrampur Block Rajpur Languages  • Official Bhojpuri, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 497118 Vehicle registration CG"
"Rajpur is one of the six block divisions of Balrampur district, Chhattisgarh, along with Balrampur, Shankargarh, Kusmi, Ramchandarpur, and Wadrafnagar.[1]"
"Rajpur, Balrampur"
Notable people
"Tinkitam town Tinkitam Show map of Sikkim Tinkitam Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°14′0″N 88°19′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.23333°N 88.32556°E﻿ / 27.23333; 88.32556Coordinates: 27°14′0″N 88°19′32″E﻿ / ﻿27.23333°N 88.32556°E﻿ / 27.23333; 88.32556 Country  India State Sikkim District South Sikkim Government  • Type Municipal corporation  • Body Nagar Palika Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
"Tinkitam is a small town in South Sikkim, India. The town is located 45 minutes from the district headquarters Namchi. The town is being promoted as a tourist destination. Mount Kanchenjanga is near the town."
"The local area contains rare species of orchids and Paphiopedilum Faireanum and other orchids of the Cypripedioideae genus, also called ""Lady's slipper"". Most orchids near this village are terrestrial, blooming in October and November. Nearby are the Temi Tea Gardens, the only tea estate of Sikkim. Tinkitam offers a view of a dormant volcano that one can come across during the trek from Dentham to Tendong National Park."
The economy of this town mainly concerns its cardamom plantations. Locals are mostly of Bhutia and Nepali ancestry. Nepali is the predominant language. The town has a temperate climate.
Tinkitam was the birthplace of Indian football captain Baichung Bhutia.[1] Many members of his family continue to live in the village.[2]
"Damthang, Sikkim Damthang town Damthang, Sikkim Show map of Sikkim Damthang, Sikkim Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°14′N 88°24′E﻿ / ﻿27.23°N 88.40°E﻿ / 27.23; 88.40Coordinates: 27°14′N 88°24′E﻿ / ﻿27.23°N 88.40°E﻿ / 27.23; 88.40 Country  India State Sikkim District South Sikkim Elevation 1,852 m (6,076 ft) Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
Damthang is a small town in the South Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim.
"Damthang is located at 27°14′N 88°24′E﻿ / ﻿27.23°N 88.40°E﻿ / 27.23; 88.40.[1] It has an average elevation of 1,852 metres (6,076 feet)."
"Sumbuk town Sumbuk Show map of Sikkim Sumbuk Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°05′55″N 88°22′52″E﻿ / ﻿27.0986°N 88.3810°E﻿ / 27.0986; 88.3810Coordinates: 27°05′55″N 88°22′52″E﻿ / ﻿27.0986°N 88.3810°E﻿ / 27.0986; 88.3810 Country  India State Sikkim District South Sikkim Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
Sumbuk is a small town in the South Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim.
"Chidam town Chidam Show map of Sikkim Chidam Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°07′N 88°27′E﻿ / ﻿27.12°N 88.45°E﻿ / 27.12; 88.45Coordinates: 27°07′N 88°27′E﻿ / ﻿27.12°N 88.45°E﻿ / 27.12; 88.45 Country  India State Sikkim District South Sikkim Elevation 819 m (2,687 ft) Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
Chidam is a small town in the South Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim.
"Chidam is located at 27°07′N 88°27′E﻿ / ﻿27.12°N 88.45°E﻿ / 27.12; 88.45.[1] It has an average elevation of 819 metres (2,687 feet)."
Avifauna
Flora
Footnotes
Geographical situation
Tibetan community
"Ravangla town Temi Tea Gardens in Ravangla Ravangla Show map of Sikkim Ravangla Show map of India Location in Sikkim, India Coordinates: 27°17′33″N 88°21′34″E﻿ / ﻿27.29250°N 88.35944°E﻿ / 27.29250; 88.35944Coordinates: 27°17′33″N 88°21′34″E﻿ / ﻿27.29250°N 88.35944°E﻿ / 27.29250; 88.35944 Country  India State Sikkim District South Sikkim Languages  • Official Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Tamang and Sunwar Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration SK"
Ravangla or Rawangla or Ravongla is a small tourist town situated at an elevation of 7000 ft in South Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim. It is connected by state highway to other major towns in the state and lies between Pelling and Gangtok. It acts as the starting point for the trek to Maenam Wildlife Sanctuary.
"Mt. Kanchenjunga, Mt. Pandim, Mt. Siniolchu, Mt. Kabru are just a few of the major peaks that are clearly visible from Ravangla."
Upper parts of Ravangla experiences snowfall during winter. During the months of April–May the place is surrounded by many flowers including orchids and rhododendrons.
"Ravangla attracts a lot of Himalayan birds and is a bird watcher's paradise. Birds like verditer flycatchers, blue-fronted redstarts, grey bushchats, dark-throated thrush, blue whistling-thrush, green-backed tit and white-browed fantails can be easily spotted."
"Ralang Monastery, a Buddhist monastery of the Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism is located six kilometres from Ravangla.[1]"
"National Institute of Technology Sikkim, established in 2011 has its temporary campus in this picturesque town."
"Upper Mangshila is a village in Mangan subdivision, North Sikkim district, Sikkim, India. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given it a geographical code of 260892.[1]"
"Lachen Forest Block is a village in Chungthang subdivision, North Sikkim district, Sikkim, India. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given it a geographical code of 260864.[1]"
"Lum is a village in Mangan subdivision, North Sikkim district, Sikkim, India. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given it a geographical code of 260880.[1]"
"Dhandera Rajputana धनदेरा city Dhandera Rajputana Show map of Uttarakhand Dhandera Rajputana Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°50′N 77°53′E﻿ / ﻿29.84°N 77.89°E﻿ / 29.84; 77.89Coordinates: 29°50′N 77°53′E﻿ / ﻿29.84°N 77.89°E﻿ / 29.84; 77.89 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Hardwar Population (2001)  • Total 15,297 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Dhandera is a census town in Haridwar district in the state of Uttarakhand, India. Dhandera is located at 29°50′N 77°53′E﻿ / ﻿29.84°N 77.89°E﻿ / 29.84; 77.89.[1]"
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Dhandera had a population of 15,297. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Dhandera has an average literacy rate of 55%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 62% and, female literacy is 48%. In Dhandera, 16% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Roorkee Cantonment city Roorkee Cantonment Show map of Uttarakhand Roorkee Cantonment Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°52′N 77°53′E﻿ / ﻿29.87°N 77.88°E﻿ / 29.87; 77.88Coordinates: 29°52′N 77°53′E﻿ / ﻿29.87°N 77.88°E﻿ / 29.87; 77.88 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Hardwar Elevation 284 m (932 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 17,747 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK 08 Website cbroorkee.org.in"
"Roorkee Cantonment is a cantonment town, in Roorkee, Haridwar district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand, and is one of country's oldest cantonments established in 1853,[1] and the headquarters of Bengal Engineer Group (Bengal Sappers) since 1853.[2][3]"
"Roorkee became home to the Bengal Sappers and Miners in 1853, and two artillery units were stationed here.[4] Today, the cantonment has a large army base with headquarters for 'Bengal Engineer Group' (BEG), also known as Bengal Sappers, established in 1803,[4] in 1901 the population of the cantonment had grown to 2951.[5]"
"As of 2001 India census,[6] Roorkee Cantonment had a population of 17,747. Males constitute 61% of the population and females 39%. Roorkee has an average literacy rate of 87%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 92%, and female literacy is 76%. In Roorkee, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Famous locations
"Dehradun Cantonment City Dehradun Cantonment Show map of Uttarakhand Dehradun Cantonment Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°20′N 77°58′E﻿ / ﻿30.34°N 77.97°E﻿ / 30.34; 77.97Coordinates: 30°20′N 77°58′E﻿ / ﻿30.34°N 77.97°E﻿ / 30.34; 77.97 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Dehradun Elevation 460 m (1,510 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 30,102 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 248003 Telephone code 0135 Vehicle registration UK 07 Website uk.gov.in GREEN TOWN"
"Dehradun Cantonment is a cantonment town in Dehradun district in the state of Uttarakhand, India."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Dehradun Cantonment had a population of 30,102. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Dehradun Cantonment has an average literacy rate of 79%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 82% and, female literacy is 76%. In Dehradun Cantonment, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Tapkeshwar, FRI, Robers cave, Shahestra dhara (Valley of sulphur), Bhadraj near Mussoorie road. Shiv temple en route Mussoorie."
Dehradun Cantonment
Demographics
Overview
Ganga's birthplace - Confluence of Alaknanda & Bhagirathi
"Devprayag Devprayag Location in Uttarakhand, India Geography Coordinates 30°08′47″N 78°35′54″E﻿ / ﻿30.146315°N 78.598251°E﻿ / 30.146315; 78.598251Coordinates: 30°08′47″N 78°35′54″E﻿ / ﻿30.146315°N 78.598251°E﻿ / 30.146315; 78.598251 Country India State Uttarakhand District Tehri Garhwal Locale Uttarakhand, India"
"Devprayag (Devanagari: देव प्रयाग Deva prayāga) is a town and a nagar panchayat (municipality) in Tehri Garhwal district[1][2] in the state of Uttarakhand, India, and is one of the Panch Prayag (five confluences) of Alaknanda River where Alaknanda and Bhagirathi rivers meet and take the name Ganga or Ganges River."
"Traditionally, it is considered to be the place where sage Devasharma led his ascetic life, giving birth its present name, Devprayag. It is one of the five sacred confluences in the hills and is an important place of pilgrimage for devout Hindus.[3]"
"""Devaprayāga"" means ""Godly Confluence"" in Sanskrit. As per Hindu scriptures, Devaprayaga is the sacred event of merging two heavenly rivers, Alakananda and Bhagirathi, to form the holy Ganges."
"On a terrace in the upper part of the village is the temple of Raghunathji, built of huge stones, pyramidal in form and capped by a white cupola.[4]"
"As of 2001 India census,[5] Devprayag had a population of 2144. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Devprayag has an average literacy rate of 77%, higher than the national average of 74.5%; male literacy is 82% and, female literacy is 72%. In Devprayag, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age. The town is the seat of the pandas of the Badrinath Dham."
"Chakrata चक्राता Town चकराता Chakrata Show map of Uttarakhand Chakrata Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°42′07″N 77°52′08″E﻿ / ﻿30.702°N 77.869°E﻿ / 30.702; 77.869Coordinates: 30°42′07″N 77°52′08″E﻿ / ﻿30.702°N 77.869°E﻿ / 30.702; 77.869 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Dehradun Elevation 2,118 m (6,949 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 3,498 Languages  • Official {{{demographics1_info1}}}  • Native {{{demographics1_info2}}} Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Chakrata is a cantonment town in Dehradun district[1] in the state of Uttarakhand, India."
"As of 2001 India census,[7] Chakrata had a population of 3497.[6] Males constitute 62% of the population and females 38%. Chakrata has an average literacy rate of 75%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; w with male literacy of 81% and female literacy of 65%. 12% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Airlines and destinations
"Pantnagar Airport पंतनगर हवाई अड्डा IATA: PGH ICAO: VIPT Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Location Pantnagar Elevation AMSL 764 ft / 233 m Coordinates 29°01′56″N 079°28′27″E﻿ / ﻿29.03222°N 79.47417°E﻿ / 29.03222; 79.47417 Map PantNagar Location of airport in India Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 10/28 4,500 1,372 Asphalt [1]"
"Pantnagar Airport (IATA: PGH, ICAO: VIPT) is a domestic airport located in Pantnagar of Udham Singh Nagar district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. It is operated by the Airports Authority of India. It is the nearest airport to the Kumaon hill stations of Nainital (65 km), Bhimtal (50 km), Ranikhet (110 km) and Almora (120 km) and the Jim Corbett National Park (120 km).[2][3]"
"The airport was able to accommodate only small aircraft until 2008, when the length of the runway was increased to 4,500 feet to accommodate larger turboprop aircraft at a cost of ₹75 crores.[4]"
"The Government of Uttarakhand had offered a subsidy to Jagson Airlines between 2005 and 2008, to undertake daily scheduled flights between Pantnagar and Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi.[5] The annual subsidy was not renewed in 2008 when the runway length was increased. The government then invited Deccan Aviation to fly on the Delhi - Pantnagar route.[4] Kingfisher Airlines, which took over Deccan Aviation, undertook seasonal flights to Pantnagar as poor weather did not allow it to fly around the year.[6] The airport had been without a commercial service ever since Kingfisher ceased operations.[7] Pantnagar Airport, now, has daily Air India Regional flights to and from IGI, Delhi (since 01 Oct 2014).[8]"
"In August 2015, Airport Advisory Committee said that the Airport will be developed in cargo hub and the length of the runway will be increased from its present length of 1,372m to 1,865m. [9]"
Airlines Destinations Air India Regional Delhi
"Ramganga Dam Location of Ramganga Dam in India Country India Location Kalagrh Coordinates 29°31′10″N 78°45′31″E﻿ / ﻿29.51944°N 78.75861°E﻿ / 29.51944; 78.75861Coordinates: 29°31′10″N 78°45′31″E﻿ / ﻿29.51944°N 78.75861°E﻿ / 29.51944; 78.75861 Status Operational Construction began 1961 Opening date 1974 Construction cost Rs. 172.12 crores Owner(s) Uttaranchal Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited Dam and spillways Type of dam Embankment Impounds Ramganga River Height 128 m (420 ft) Length 715 m (2,346 ft) Dam volume 10,000,000 m3 (13,079,506 cu yd) Spillway capacity 8,467 m3/s (299,009 cu ft/s) Reservoir Total capacity 2,447,000,000 m3 (1,983,815 acre·ft) Active capacity 2,190,000,000 m3 (1,775,462 acre·ft) Catchment area 3,134 km2 (1,210 sq mi) Surface area 55 km2 (21 sq mi) Power station Decommission date 1975-1977 Hydraulic head 84.4 m (277 ft) (design) Turbines 3 x 66 MW Francis-type Installed capacity 198 MW"
"The Ramganga Dam, also known as the Kalagarh Dam, is an embankment dam on the Ramganga River 3 km (2 mi) upstream of Kalagarh in Pauri Garhwal district, Uttarakhand, India. It is located within the Jim Corbett National Park."
"The dam is part of the Ramganga Multipurpose Project — an irrigation and hydroelectric project. It supports a 198 MW power station and provides water for the irrigation of 57,500 ha (142,086 acres) of farmland. In addition, it provides for flood control and recreation. Construction on the dam began in 1961 and it was completed in 1974. The three generators in the power station were commissioned in December 1975, November 1976 and March 1977.[1]"
Nearby Places of interest
"Bajpur बाजपुर city Bajpur Show map of Uttarakhand Bajpur Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 29°10′N 79°10′E﻿ / ﻿29.17°N 79.16°E﻿ / 29.17; 79.16Coordinates: 29°10′N 79°10′E﻿ / ﻿29.17°N 79.16°E﻿ / 29.17; 79.16 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Udham Singh Nagar Founded by Lala Khushi Ram Sood Population (2011)  • Total 25,524 Languages  • Official Hindi, Punjabi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Bajpur (Hindi: बाजपुर) is a city and a municipality in Udham Singh Nagar district in the state of Uttarakhand, India."
"It was formerly known as Bazpur, and was established early in the 20th century, by the one of the most powerful rulers of Chand dynasty was Baz Bahadur since 1950,"
Bazpur is located at 29°10′N 79°10′E﻿ / ﻿29.17°N 79.16°E﻿ / 29.17; 79.16.[2]
"As of 2001 India census,[3] Bazpur had a population of 21,782. Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%. Bazpur has an average literacy rate of 66%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 60% of the males and 40% of females literate. 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Nainital, Moradabad, Jim Corbett National Park, Kashipur, New Delhi"
Demographics
"Virbhadra वीरभद्र Town Virbhadra Show map of Uttarakhand Virbhadra Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°04′N 78°17′E﻿ / ﻿30.07°N 78.28°E﻿ / 30.07; 78.28Coordinates: 30°04′N 78°17′E﻿ / ﻿30.07°N 78.28°E﻿ / 30.07; 78.28 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Dehradun Elevation 330 m (1,080 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 13,271 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 249202 Telephone code 0135 Vehicle registration UK Website uk.gov.in"
"Virbhadra is a town in Dehradun district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand, located close to the pilgrimage town of Rishikesh. It is most known as the factory township of Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited, Rishikesh plant (IDPL), a Government of India undertaking, established in 1967, with about 2700 houses,[1] with Government Inter College and a Kendriya Vidyalaya, established in 2003 [2] The town also has a Neem Karoli Baba Ashram and a Hanuman Mandir. Very near to the town is the Pashulok Barrage which acts as a water reservoir for the Chilla Hydro power plant. The motorable road to the Neelkanth Mahadev Temple temple passes along the top of the dam."
"Virbhadra is located at 30°04′N 78°17′E﻿ / ﻿30.07°N 78.28°E﻿ / 30.07; 78.28.[3] It has an average elevation of 330 metres (1,083 feet)."
"It is named after Virabhadra, an avatar created through the wrath of Shiva after the yajña of Daksha, at Kankhal. An ancient Shiva temple known as Virbhadra Temple, dedicated to him, is situated within the town. Virbhadra is famous for the first government pharmaceutical plant, Indian Drugs and Pharmaceutical Limited (IDPL)."
Virbhadra
Tibetan Children's Home
"Clement Town Majra Clement Doon city Clement Town Show map of Uttarakhand Clement Town Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°16′01″N 78°00′25″E﻿ / ﻿30.267°N 78.007°E﻿ / 30.267; 78.007Coordinates: 30°16′01″N 78°00′25″E﻿ / ﻿30.267°N 78.007°E﻿ / 30.267; 78.007 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Dehradun Government  • Type Municipal corporation Elevation 410 m (1,350 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 19,634 Languages  • Official English, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 248002 Vehicle registration UK 07 Website uk.gov.in"
"Clement Town is a town of Dehradun district in the state of Uttarakhand, India. It borders Rajaji National Park and is home to several renowned institutions. Schools such as Raja Ram Mohan Roy Academy and St. Mary's are in the neighbourhood. Country singer Bobby Cash resides in Clement Town."
"Clement Town is located at 30°16′01″N 78°00′25″E﻿ / ﻿30.267°N 78.007°E﻿ / 30.267; 78.007.[1] It has an average elevation of 410 metres (1,345 feet).The climate is similar to Dehradun."
"Inspired by his Holiness The 14th Dalai Lama's TCV (Tibetan Children's Village), The Tibetan Children’s Home was established in Dhondupling Tibetan Colony, Clement Town, Dehra Dun, India on March 18, 1991. TCH was originally funded by the eleven-member Board of Directors, then was bought out by Mr. Sonam Singhe in 2004. This is a not-for profit boarding school, that aids Tibetan children to get the education they need. TCH provides food, shelter, tutoring and transportation for the children living under poverty. Those that cannot afford to pay for these expenses are given grants and donations from charities such as Parimita Charitable Trust, the Tibetan Homes Foundation, the Tibetan Children’s Fund, the Chenrezig Fund, the Social Justice Fund of the First Unitarian Society of Madison, and Lake Side Church. In 1992, his Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama visited TCH and gave it his blessing and support. He praised the initiative for the work that has been done and presented TCH with a notable gift to help develop the facilities."
"A large Tibetan settlement and the World's Largest Stupa, of the re-established Mindroling Monastery from Tibet, is situated in Clement Town, which was inaugurated on 28 October 2002 and is surrounded by a 2-acre (8,100 m2) garden.[5][6] It is the highest Mindroling Monastery in the world"
There is also a 103 feet (31 m) high statue of Buddha is dedicated to the Dalai Lama.[7]
Constituent villages
Demographics
"Kumarghat KGT city Kumarghat Show map of Tripura Kumarghat Show map of India Coordinates: 24°9′30″N 92°1′47″E﻿ / ﻿24.15833°N 92.02972°E﻿ / 24.15833; 92.02972Coordinates: 24°9′30″N 92°1′47″E﻿ / ﻿24.15833°N 92.02972°E﻿ / 24.15833; 92.02972 Country  India State Tripura District Unakoti district Population (2015)  • Total 15,189 Languages  • Official Bengali, Kokborok, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration TR Website tripura.gov.in"
"Kumarghat is a town, municipality, block and a sub-division in Unakoti district in the Indian state of Tripura."
"As of 2011, Kumarghat sub-division had a population of 157,972.[1]"
"Darchawi, Ujan Dudhpur, Bali Cherra ((Bashbagan)) ((Uttar pabiacherra))"
Kumarghat
"Ujan Dudhpur is a village in Kumarghat, Unakoti district, Tripura, India. The Manu River runs through this village."
There is a school in this village named Dudhpur High School that educates almost 300 students. [1]
"Darchawi (Darlong for ""Darchawi khua"") is a village in Kumarghat Subdivision under Unakoti district of Tripura state in India.[1] Mainly inhabited by the Darlong people of Tripura, it is also the headquarter of Kailashahar Baptist Christian Association (KBCA).[2] There are around five churches in the village.[1]"
"It has a Bengali medium Senior basic school and an English medium school, ""Darchawi Christian High School"" established in 1974.[3]"
"The main source of income is from agriculture, particularly pineapples; in 1997 every family earned over Rs 100,000 per season from the fruit.[4] Rubber, litchus and mango are also grown.[1]"
"Ambassa city Ambassa Show map of Tripura Ambassa Show map of India Location in Tripura, India Coordinates: 23°55′10.8″N 91°50′42″E﻿ / ﻿23.919667°N 91.84500°E﻿ / 23.919667; 91.84500Coordinates: 23°55′10.8″N 91°50′42″E﻿ / ﻿23.919667°N 91.84500°E﻿ / 23.919667; 91.84500 Country  India State Tripura District Dhalai Population (2015)  • Total 16,407 Languages  • Official Bengali, Kokborok, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration TR-04 Website tripura.gov.in"
Ambassa (Pron:/æmˈbæsə/) is a census town and the headquarters of the Dhalai district of the Indian state of Tripura.
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Ambassa had a population of 6,052. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Ambassa has an average literacy rate of 70%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 60% of the males and 40% of females literate. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Manu Manughat TTADC Village Country India State Tripura District Dhalai Tripura Languages  • Official Bengali, Kokborok, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration TR Lok Sabha constituency Tripura East Website tripura.gov.in"
"Manu is a village in Dhalai Tripura district, Tripura, India. It falls under Tripura East Lok Sabha Constituency."
"National Highway 44A ends at Manu.[1] The nearest major town is Agartala, Tripura."
"Amarpur city Amarpur Show map of Tripura Amarpur Show map of India Coordinates: 23°32′N 91°38′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.64°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.64Coordinates: 23°32′N 91°38′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.64°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.64 Country India State Tripura District Gomati district Elevation 24 m (79 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 10,863 Languages  • Official Bengali, Kokborok, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 799101 Vehicle registration TR Website tripura.gov.in"
"Amarpur is a town and a nagar panchayat in Gomati district in the state of Tripura , India. It is also the headquarters of Amarpur sub-division."
Amarpur is located at 23°32′N 91°38′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.64°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.64.[1] It has an average elevation of 24 metres (78 feet) above sea level. The town is connected to Udaipur and Teliamura with metalled roads. It can be accessed from the capital city of Agartala via Udaipur town. The nearest airport is the Agartala Airport and the nearest railway station is Agartala.
"Amarpur is an idyllic quiet picnic spot, on the banks of Amarsagar, the 16th century artificial lake. The town stands on the ruins of a palace. On the southern bank lies a temple dedicated to the eight headed goddess, Mangalchandi. A fair is held during the Basant Panchami (February)."
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Amarpur had a population of 10,863. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Amarpur has an average literacy rate of 80%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 56% of the males and 44% of females literate. 9% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Amarpur, Tripura"
Attractions in Udaipur
Temples
"Udaipur উদয়পুর UDP city Udaipur Show map of Tripura Udaipur Show map of India Location in Tripura, India Coordinates: 23°32′N 91°29′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.48°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.48Coordinates: 23°32′N 91°29′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.48°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.48 Country  India State Tripura District Gomati district Elevation 22 m (72 ft) Population (2015)[1]  • Total 37,781  • Rank 3rd (in Tripura) Languages  • Official Bengali, Kokborok, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration TR-03 Website tripura.gov.in"
"Udaipur (Pron:/uːˈdaɪpʊə or ˈuːdaɪˌpʊə/) (Bengali: উদয়পুর) is a town and a municipal council in the Indian state of Tripura. This city is famous for the Tripura Sundari temple. It is also the headquarters of Gomati district. Udaipur is about 55 km from Agartala, the capital of Tripura. There are lots of artificial lakes (namely Dhani Sagar, Bijoy Sagar (Mahadev Dighi), Jagannath Dighi, Amar Sagar). Udaipur is the 3rd largest town of tripura followed by Agartala and Dharmanagar on the bank of Gomati river."
"Udaipur is located at 23°32′N 91°29′E﻿ / ﻿23.53°N 91.48°E﻿ / 23.53; 91.48.[2] It has an average elevation of 22 metres (72 feet).The Gumti river passes through the heart of Udaipur and helps in irrigation of its lands. It is around 48 km from the state capital,"
"As of 2001 India census,[3] Udaipur had a population of 21,751. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Udaipur has an average literacy rate of 84%, higher than the national average of 72.9%: male literacy is 87%, and female literacy is 81%. In Udaipur, 9% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Udaipur is dotted with temples the most famous of which is the Tripura Sundari temple, which is one of the 51 Shakti Peethas. The temple was constructed by Maharaja Dhanya Manikya Debbarma in 1501. There is a big lake beside the temple known as Kalyan Sagar. Bhubaneshwari Temple is another famous temple here.Udaipur is also known as ""lake city"" and has many beautiful lakes.Some of them are Bijoy Sagar, Jagannath dighi, Amar sagar and as mentioned above, Kalyan sagar.It also has a national library named ""Nazrul Granthagar"",after Kazi Nazrul Islam."
"Tripura Sundari Temple (Matar Badi-Mothers Abode) Jagannath-Badi Temple Mahadev-Badi Temple Satsanga Bihar, Udaipur Loknath Temple Ramkrisna Asram Basanti Mandir Ramthakur Asram Bhubaneswari Temple"
"Moulvibazar মৌলভীবাজার Town Division Sylhet Division District Moulvibazar District Area  • Total 10.36 km2 (4.00 sq mi) Population  • Total 41,358  • Density 4,000/km2 (10,000/sq mi) Time zone BST (UTC+6) Post code 3200"
Moulvibazar (Bengali: মৌলভীবাজার) is a town in north-eastern Bangladesh just south of Sylhet City. It is the capital of Moulvibazar District. Moulvibazar is located on the banks of the Manu River. The city has a high population density. The Moulvibazar region is well known for its tea gardens and tropical forests. The most of the tea gardens of Bangladesh is in Moulvibazar.
"Tourism - Madhob Kundo Waterfall, Hum Hum Waterfall, Madhobpur Lake, Bangladesh Tea Research Institute (BTRI)"
Airlines and destinations
"Kailashahar Airport कैलाशहर हवाई अड्डे IATA: IXH ICAO: VEKR Summary Airport type Public Operator Airports Authority of India Location Kailashahar Elevation AMSL 79 ft / 24 m Coordinates 24°18′29″N 092°00′26″E﻿ / ﻿24.30806°N 92.00722°E﻿ / 24.30806; 92.00722Coordinates: 24°18′29″N 092°00′26″E﻿ / ﻿24.30806°N 92.00722°E﻿ / 24.30806; 92.00722 Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 03/21 3,300 1,006 Asphalt"
"Kailashahar Airport (IATA: IXH, ICAO: VEKR) was an airport located at Kailashahar in the state of Tripura, India. The airport was shut down in mid 1990 due to lack of space. After that, there has been no attempt to relocate it."
There is currently no scheduled commercial air service in this Airport.
Kailashahar Airport at the AAI Airport information for VEKR at World Aero Data. Data current as of October 2006.
"Longleng town Longleng Location in Nagaland, India Coordinates: 26°28′07″N 94°48′33″E﻿ / ﻿26.4685°N 94.8092°E﻿ / 26.4685; 94.8092Coordinates: 26°28′07″N 94°48′33″E﻿ / ﻿26.4685°N 94.8092°E﻿ / 26.4685; 94.8092 Country  India State Nagaland District Longleng Languages  • Official English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration NL Website nagaland.gov.in"
District map of Nagaland with Longleng town
Longleng (Pron:/ˈlɒŋˌlɛŋ/) is a town situated at an altitude of 1066 metres above sea level in India. It is the district headquarters of the newly formed Longleng district in Nagaland. Mokokchung is the nearest major town. Phom language is the main language spoken here by Phom Naga people.Monyu is the major festival celebrated by Phoms.
"Tuensang city Tuensang Location in India Coordinates: 26°16′18″N 94°49′53″E﻿ / ﻿26.271559°N 94.831384°E﻿ / 26.271559; 94.831384Coordinates: 26°16′18″N 94°49′53″E﻿ / ﻿26.271559°N 94.831384°E﻿ / 26.271559; 94.831384 Country  India State Nagaland Elevation 1,371 m (4,498 ft) Languages Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration NL Website nagaland.gov.in"
"Tuensang (Pron:/ˌtjuːənˈsæŋ/) is a town in Nagaland, India. It is the headquarters of the Tuensang district, the easternmost and the largest district of Nagaland, bordering with Myanmar. The town was founded in 1947 for the purpose of administrating the erstwhile North Eastern Frontier Agency (NEFA) that comprised the present day Tuensang, Mon, Longleng and Kiphire districts. Nowadays, these four districts combined together are also known as Eastern Nagaland."
"The Tuensang area was originally made up of all the present four districts of Eastern Nagaland. Even after the British conquest of India, the Tuensang tribal region remained unadministered due to lack of sufficient men and money. However in 1902, the area was brought under the nominal control of the British. It was called Tribal Area and was administered by the Governor General of India. In 1948, a separate division called Tuensang Administrative Circle was created.[1]"
"When the Constitution of India was first released in 1950, Tuensang Division was placed in ""Part B"" category of tribal districts as per the Sixth Schedule. It became part of the North-East Frontier Agency (NEFA). Subsequently in 1957, it was merged with the Naga Hills District to form a new administrative unit under the Ministry of External Affairs.[2] After negotiation with the secessionists, this administrative unit was later made a full-fledged state called Nagaland."
Tuensang is located at 26°17′N 94°50′E﻿ / ﻿26.28°N 94.83°E﻿ / 26.28; 94.83.[3] It has an average elevation of 1371 metres (4498 feet).
"The National Highways 155 passes through the district, linking Mokokchung (NH-61 junction) and Jessami (NH-150 junction) via Tuensang Town, covering a distance of 342 km. Recently the ongoing work on NH-155 came under severe criticisms from the public led by Eastern Naga Students' Federation for alleged poor workmanship, non-adherence to contract norms by the contractors, and lackadaisical attitude of the Nagaland Public Works Department.[5][6][7]"
Airlines and destinations
"Gelephu Airport IATA: GLU ICAO: VQGP Summary Airport type Public Operator Department of Civil Aviation Location Gelephu District Elevation AMSL 984 ft / 300 m Coordinates 26°52′07″N 090°27′55″E﻿ / ﻿26.86861°N 90.46528°E﻿ / 26.86861; 90.46528Coordinates: 26°52′07″N 090°27′55″E﻿ / ﻿26.86861°N 90.46528°E﻿ / 26.86861; 90.46528 Map Gelephu Airport Location within Bhutan Runways Direction Length Surface ft m 11/29 4,921 1,500 Asphalt [1][2]"
"Gelephu Airport (IATA: GLU, ICAO: VQGP) is located in Samtenling Gewog, about three kilometres from Gelephu town in Sarpang District, Bhutan. The airport has been constructed on an area spanning over 500 acres but is not yet in use. It is one of only four airports in Bhutan."
"The airport was inaugurated in October 2012,[3] but has not yet established scheduled operations due to its lack of certification from the Department of Civil Aviation of Bhutan.[4] The airport was originally planned as an international airport but the plan was shelved in 2008.[5] In January 2015, The Department of Civil Aviation told Kuensel that the airport had been closed to scheduled flights due to the need to construct a new terminal building and control tower. A spokesperson said that it was hoping the new structures would be completed in February 2015, and that ""Then from our side it’ll be open to scheduled flights.""[6] Despite this, it was reported that Drukair was not aware of the airport's reopening and stated that it would not launch commercial flights until it had studied the market conditions to ensure scheduled operations were viable.[6]"
"Airlines Destinations Druk Air Jakar, Paro[7]"
Gelephu Airport
"Dagana District (Dzongkha: དར་དཀར་ན་རྫོང་ཁག་; Wylie: Dar-dkar-na rdzong-khag; also spelled ""Dhakana,"" previously known as ""Daga"") is one of the 20 dzongkhag (districts) comprising Bhutan. Its administrative capital (dzongkhag thromde) is Daga."
"Dagana is populated mostly by Dzongkha speakers, however in the southwest near Sarpang District, Nepali is also spoken as a native language."
Environment
"Like most districts of Bhutan, Dagana contains environmentally protected areas. In southeastern Dagana along the border with India lies the western half of Phibsoo Wildlife Sanctuary, covering parts of Karmaling, Lhamoy Zingkha and Nichula Gewogs. Phibsoo has no human inhabitants.[1][2] it has a districts with Nepali speaking people .there is only one way to go to daga dzong.has lots of complicated passage."
"The Baba Umer Dargah (Urdu: بابا امر درگاہ‎) is a famous Islamic shrine in Solapur, India.[1] It is known for a baby throwing ritual, in which infants are dropped from a 15-meter platform onto a cloth held by both Muslim and Hindu men.[2][3][4] This practice is five to seven hundred years old;[5][3] it is said to originate when a pir ""advised people whose babies were dying to build a shrine and drop the ailing infants from the roof to show their trust in the almighty"" and after doing so, ""the babies were miraculously cradled to safety in a hammock-like sheet that appeared in midair.""[6]"
Baba Umer Dargah
"Devadurga, India ದೇವದುರ್ಗ city Devadurga, India Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 16°25′59″N 76°55′01″E﻿ / ﻿16.433°N 76.917°E﻿ / 16.433; 76.917Coordinates: 16°25′59″N 76°55′01″E﻿ / ﻿16.433°N 76.917°E﻿ / 16.433; 76.917 Country India State Karnataka District Raichur Lok Sabha Constituency Raichur Area  • Total 7.43 km2 (2.87 sq mi) Elevation 398 m (1,306 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 21,994  • Density 2,960.16/km2 (7,666.8/sq mi) Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 584 111 Telephone code 08531 ISO 3166 code IN-KA Vehicle registration KA 36 Website www.devadurgatown.gov.in"
"Devadurga is a town and the taluk headquarters of the Devadurga taluk in the Raichur district in the state of Karnataka, India."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Devadurga had a population of 21,992. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Devadurga has an average literacy rate of 43%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 50% and, female literacy is 36%. In Devadurga, 17% of the population is under 6 years of age. It is one of the most backward taluks of karnataka as Nanjundappa report."
"Devadurga is also famous for the 500-year-old baobab tree.[2] There are only a handful of baobab trees in India and other known baobabs are in Savanur in Haveri district. Ancient fort located in the town.[3] Devadurga is famous for the Hazrat Zahiruddin Badshah Quadri Al-Jeelani Bagdadi Dargah. Kyadigera village on Sirwar-Arakera road is famous for the ancient fort.[4] Gabbur is known as temple town of Raichur district. Gabbur is 28 km from Devadurga. Masarkal village is located near the Devadurga. Masarkal is famous for the ancient cave dedicated to Hazarat Haji Ibrahim Sha Quadri (Babayya). Jalahalli village is located on state highway and it have two famous temple one is Shri jagadaradya jayashanthlingeswar temple and one more is shree laxmi ranganatha temple . Koppur village is located near Krishna river, Famous for Sri Narasimha Swamy Temple Since more than 1000 Years Old Ancient Temple"
"Devadurga road constructions is going on and will be completed by 2015 and will be comfortable for the people to get connected by road to Bangalore, Hubli, Hyderabad, Bagalkot and other major cities. The nearest major airport is in Hyderabad."
"Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) is a coal-fired electric power station located in the Raichur district of the state of Karnataka, India. It is operated by the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) and was the first thermal power plant to be set up in the state.[1][2] The power station was commissioned during various periods from 1985 and it accounts for about 40% of the total electricity generated in Karnataka.[3]"
The coal is pulverised and fed into furnaces that convert water into steam. This steam runs the turbines to generate electricity. Each unit produces about 5 MU per day and hence the plant can produce 35 MU per day when it is functioning at full capacity.[8]
Temples of Bhavani
"Bhavani is an exaggerated, violent form of the Hindu deity Parvati. Bhavani translates to ""giver of life""; meaning the power of nature or the source of creative energy. Bhavani is described as in love the the god Neo.They are a powerful form of love.It was love at first sight."
"Bhavani was the tutelary deity of the Maratha leader Shivaji, in whose veneration he dedicated his sword, Bhavani Talwar. There is a temple of Bhavani at Tuljapur in Maharashtra which dates back to the 12th century. The temple contains a one-metre-high granite icon of the goddess with eight arms, holding weapons. She is also depicted as holding the head of the demon, Mahishasura, whom she slew in the region which is known in the present day as Mysore."
The Tulja Bhavani temple in Tuljapur in the Osmanabad District of Maharashtra is considered one of the 51 Shakti Pithas. This temple was built close to the 12th century CE. Another Tulja Bhavani temple was constructed between 1537-1540 CE in Chittorgarh.[1] It is located at coordinates 18°00′41″N 76°07′32″E﻿ / ﻿18.011386°N 76.125641°E﻿ / 18.011386; 76.125641.
"Worship of the primeval energy, Shakti, in the form of the mother Goddess is seen in the four Shakti Peethas of Maharashtra: Bhavani with her seat at Tuljapur, Mahalakshmi at Kolhapur, Mahamaya Renuka at Mahur and Jagadamba at Saptashrungi, and also in Tamil Nadu (Periyapalayam) Sri Bhavani Amman. Other Shakti temples in the state are those at Ambejogai and Aundh."
"The goddess Bhavani is held in great reverence throughout the state of Maharashtra. She is considered to be an embodiment of ugra' or ferocity, as well as a Karunaswaroopini, an embodiment of mercy. A number of castes, sub-castes and families from Maharashtra consider her their family deity or Kuldevta."
"The Bhavani temple in Tuljapur is located on a hill known as Yamunachala, on the slopes of the Sahayadri range in Maharashtra near Sholapur. The temple entrance is elevated and visitors need to ascend a flight of steps to reach the shrine. Historic records speak of the existence of this temple from as early as the 12th century CE. Bhavani is worshipped in the form of a 3-foot-high (0.91 m) granite image, with eight arms, holding weapons, and bearing the head of the slain demon, Mahishasura. Bhavani is also known as Tulaja, Turaja, Tvarita, and Amba."
"Legend says that a demon by the name of Matanga wreaked havoc upon the devas and humans who then approached Brahma for help. Upon his advice, they turned to the Mother Goddess Shakti, who took the form of the destroyer and, powered by the other Saptamaataas (Varaahi, Bhrahmi, Vaishnavi, Kaumaari, Indraani, and Saambhavi), vanquished him allowing the restoration of peace to reign again. Legend also describes how Bhavani vanquished another demon who had taken the form of a wild buffalo, Mahishasura (hence her name Mahishasura Mardhini or 'the slayer of Mahisha the demon'). Later, she took abode on the Yamunachala hill, which is now home to the temple. Four worship services are offered each day here. The festivals of special significance here are Gudi Padwa in the month of Chaitra, Shriral Sashti, Lalita Panchami, Makara Sankranti, and Rathasaptami. The deity is taken out in procession on Tuesdays. Navaratri is also celebrated with great fanfare, and it culminates in Vijaya Dasami."
Language characteristics
"The Ahom language is a nearly extinct Tai language spoken by the Ahom people who ruled the Brahmaputra river valley in the present day Indian state of Assam between the 13th and the 18th centuries. The language is classified in a Northwestern subgrouping of Southwestern Tai owing to close affinities with Shan, Khamti and, more distantly, Thai. As the Ahom rulers of the area assimilated to the more numerous Assamese, the Indo-Aryan Assamese language gradually replaced Ahom as a spoken language, a process which became complete during the 19th century. As of 2000, Ahom was only known by approximately 200 priests of the traditional Ahom religion and only used for ceremonial or ritualistic purposes."
"Although the language is no longer spoken, the exhaustive 1795 Ahom-Assamese lexicon known as the Bar Amra preserves the form of the language that was spoken during the Ahom Kingdom. Ahom is an important language in Tai studies. It was relatively free of both Mon-Khmer and Indo-Aryan influences and has a written tradition dating back to the 13th century."
"Ahom is classified as a Southwestern Tai language. It has its own script. Ahom has characteristics typical of Tai languages, such as:"
"Subject Verb Object (SVO) word order [3][4] Tonality [3][4][5] Monosyllabic roots [3][4][5][6] Each syllable is tonal, and begins with a consonant or consonant cluster. A vowel or diphthong follows. A final consonant may be added, but is not necessary.[6] Lack of inflection [3][5] Analytic syntax [4]"
Linguistic features
"Lomavren Native to Armenia, Syria, Azerbaijan, Russia[1] Native speakers 50 in Armenia (2004)[2] Language family mixed Lom–Armenian Language codes ISO 639-3 rmi Glottolog loma1235[3]"
"Lomavren (Armenian: Լոմավրեն lomavren) is a nearly extinct mixed language, spoken by the Lom people, that arose from language contact between a language related to Romani and Domari[4] and the Armenian language."
The language is also known as (Armenian) Bosa/Bosha.
"It lacks grammatical gender and has 7 grammatical cases; its grammar is closely related to that of the Erzerum dialect of Armenian, with the vocabulary being almost exclusively Indic."
Phonology
Kota Kō mānt Native to India Region Nilgiri Hills Ethnicity Kotas Native speakers 930 (2001 census)[1] Language family Dravidian Southern Tamil–Kannada Tamil–Kodagu Toda–Kota Kota Language codes ISO 639-3 kfe Glottolog kota1263[2]
"Kota is a language of the Dravidian language family with about 900 native speakers in the Nilgiri hills of Tamil Nadu state, India. It is spoken mainly by the tribal Kota people. In the late 19th century, the native speaking population was about 1,100.[3] In 1990, the population was only 930, out of an ethnic population of perhaps 1,400, despite the great increase in the population of the area.[1] The language is 'critically endangered' due to the greater social status of neighbouring languages.[4] The Kota language may have originated from Old Kannada and is closely related to Toda. The Kota population is about 2500. The origin of the name Kota is derived from the Dravida root word 'Ko' meaning Mountain.[5][6]"
Kota language (India)
Great Quotes
Importance of work
"The Dnyaneshwari (Marathi: ज्ञानेश्वरी) (IAST:Jñānēśvarī) is a commentary on the Bhagavad Gita written by the Marathi saint and poet Dnyaneshwar in the 13th century. This commentary has been praised for its aesthetic as well as scholarly value. The original name of the work is Bhavarth Deepika, which can be roughly translated as ""The light showing the internal meaning"" (of the Bhagvad Geeta), but it is popularly called the Dnyaneshwari after its creator. Saint Dyaneshwar wrote the Dyaneshwari in Nevasa beside a pole which is still there[1]"
"The Dnyaneshwari provides the philosophical basis for the Bhagawata Dharma, a bhakti sect which had a lasting effect on the history of Maharashtra. It became one of the sacred books (i.e. the Prasthanatrai of Bhagawata Dharma) along with Eknathi Bhagawata and Tukaram Gaathaa. It is one of the foundations of the Marathi language and literature written in the Modi alphabet and continues to be widely read in Maharashtra. The Pasayadan or the nine ending verses of the Jñāneśvarī are also popular with the masses."
"Dnyaneshwar expanded the Shri Bhagavad Gita, which consisted of 750 shlokas (Sanskrit verses), into around 9999 Marathi verses (ovis). The first line of each ovi rhymes with the next two, rendering a lyrical quality to the entire work."
"The content of Dnyaneshwari reflects a detailed knowledge of kundalini, metaphysics and astrology. The commentary lays importance on God as energy. It emphasises that although there may be many different living forms, they all breathe oxygen (even fishes under water and reptiles deep inside the earth) and have the same life force within them, which is a part of God, who is energy and intelligence. It states that people can use energy and intelligence to connect with the supreme and provides methodologies to achieve the same."
Dnyaneshwari
"Sahadeva (Sanskrit: सहदेव) (not to be confused with Sahadeva, the youngest of the Pandavas) was a ruler of the Barhadratha dynasty of Magadha. In the Mahabharata, he is mentioned as the son of Jarasandha, who was placed on the throne of Magadha by the Pandavas on the former's death in a duel with the Pandava prince Bhima."
"According to the Puranas, he was killed in the Kurukshetra war and succeeded by Somadhi.[1]"
Successors of Brihadhartha
"Brihadratha (Sanskrit: बृहद्रथ; IAST: Bṛhadratha), also known as Maharatha, was the founder of the Barhadratha dynasty, the earliest ruling dynasty of Magadha. According to the Mahabharata and the Puranas, he was the eldest of the five sons of Vasu, the Kuru king of Chedi[1] and his queen Girika. The name of Brihadratha is also found in the Rigveda (I.36.18, X.49.6).[2]"
"All the Puranas mention his sister Amna, as his successor. Kushagra was succeeded by his son Vrishava (or Rishava). Pushpavanta (or Pushyavanta or Punyavanta) was the son of Vrishava. Pushpavanta was succeeded by his son Satyahita (or Satyadhrita). Satyahita's son was Sudhanvana (or Sudharmana, Dharmatma of Dhanusha). Dhanusha was succeeded by his son Sarva (or Urja or Jatu or Jahu or Jantu). Sarva was succeeded by his son Sambhava. According to the Agni Purana, Sambhava was succeeded by his son Jarasandha,[3] the noted warrior king mentioned in the Mahabharata. But all other Puranic genealogical list mention the name of Brihadratha again between either Jantu and Jarasandha or Sambhava and Jarasandha. Jarasandha was succeeded by his son Sahadeva who was killed in the Kurukshetra war.[1]"
Jain tradition
Marriage alliances
"Bimbisara (c. 558 – c. 491 BC)[1][2] or Srenika was a King of Magadha (r. 542 – 492 BC)[3] and belonged to the Haryanka dynasty.[4] He was the son of Bhattiya.[5] His expansion of the kingdom, especially his annexation of the kingdom of Anga to the east, is considered to have laid the foundations for the later expansion of the Maurya Empire.[6]"
"He is also known for his cultural achievements and was a great friend and protector of the Buddha. Bimbisara built the city of Rajgir, famous in Buddhist writings. He was succeeded on the throne by his son Ajatashatru.[6]"
"Bimbisara's laid the foundations of Magadha by fortification of a village, which later became the city of Pataliputra.[7] His first capital was at Girivraja (identified with Rajgir or Rajagriha). He led a military campaign against Anga, perhaps to avenge his father's earlier defeat at the hands of its king, Brahmadatta. The campaign was successful, Anga was annexed, and prince Kunika (Ajatashatru) was appointed governor at Champa.[8]"
"Bimbisara used marriage alliances to strengthen his position. His first wife was Kosala Devi, the daughter of Mahā Kosala the king of Kosala, and a sister of Prasenjit. His bride brought him Kashi, which was then a mere village, as dowry.[9] This marriage also ended the hostility between Magadha and Kosala and gave him a free hand in dealing with the other states. His second wife, Chellana, was a Lichchhavi princess from Vaishali and daughter of King Chetaka.[10] As per Indologist Hermann Jacobi, Vardhaman Mahavira's mother Trishala was daughter of Chetaka. His third wife, Kshema, was a daughter of the chief of the Madra clan of Punjab.[11] These marriage alliances paved the way for the expansion of Magadha Empire both westward and northward."
"According to the tradition, Bimbisara was imprisoned by his son Ajatashatru to ascend the throne of the kingdom of Magadha. Ajatashatru later ordered his father's release after the birth of his first child, but by then it was too late and Bimbisara had already died. This was reported to have taken place around 491 BC.[4]"
"According to Buddhist scriptures, King Bimbisara met the Buddha for the first time prior to the Buddha's enlightenment. [13] He was lead to the Buddha by his wife Queen Mallika, who herself was a follower of Buddha. [14] He later became a disciple of the Buddha after being impressed by the teaching of him that one's age is no measure of one's wisdom. [15]"
Bimbisara is referred to as Shrenika[16][17][18] of Rajgir in Jain literature who became a devotee of Jainism impressed by the calmness of Yamadhar (a Jain Muni).[19] He frequently visited Samavasarana of Lord Mahavira seeking answers to his queries. He asked about the true version of Ramayana[20] and an illuminating sage (King Prasana).[21]
"Per scriptures, Bimbisara killed himself in a fit of passion, consequently, reborn in hell, where he is currently residing, until the karma which led to his birth as hell-being comes to an end.[23][24] It is further written, that he will be reborn as Mahapadma (sometimes called Padmanabha), the first in the chain of future tirthankaras who are to rise at the beginning of the upward motion (Utsarpini) of the next era of time.[25]"
"King Udayin was the Indian ruler of Haryanka dynasty who ruled over Magadha from 460 BCE to 440 BCE. He was the son of Ajatashatru and grandson of king Bimbisara.[1] King Udayin laid the foundation of the city of Pataliputra at the confluence of two rivers, the Son and the Ganges. He shifted his capital from Rajgriha to Patliputra because of the latter's central location in Magadha empire. He was succeeded by Anuruddha.[2]"
Nāgadāsaka was king of Magadha from 437 to 413 BC and son of Munda. He slew his father and ruled for twenty four years. The people deposed him and made Shishunaga king in his place.[1]
Expansion
Reign
"Shishunaga (or Shusunaga) (c. 444 – 363 BCE) was the founder of the Shishunaga dynasty of the Magadha Empire in the present day northern India. Initially, he was an amatya (official) of the Magadha empire under the Haryanka dynasty. He was placed on the throne by the people who revolted against the Haryanka dynasty rule. The Puranas tell us that he placed his son at Varanasi and himself ruled from Girivraja (Rajagriha). He was succeeded by his son Kalashoka (Kakavarna)."
"According to the Mahavamsatika, Shishunaga was a son of a Licchavi ruler of Vaishali.[1] He was conceived by a nagara-shobhini and brought up an officer of state. At the time of the revolt, he was a viceroy at Varanasi of king Nagadasaka, the last ruler of the Haryanka dynasty.[2]"
"Shishunaga ruled from 413 BCE to 395 BCE.[3][4] Initially, his capital was Rajagriha and Vaishali was his second royal residence. Later he shifted his capital to Vaishali. His most significant achievement was the destruction of the 'glory' of the Pradyota dynasty of the Avanti kingdom. Most probably the king of Avanti whom Shishunaga humbled was Avantivardhana. The Magadhan victory must have been helped by the revolution that placed Aryaka on the thone of Ujjayini.[2]"
The Puranas tell us that he placed his son at Varanasi and himself ruled from Girivraja (Rajagriha).[5][6]
"During Shishunag's rule practically the whole of India (present day India excluding the regions of Tamil Nadu south of Madurai, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh) was under his rule. In 425 BC he annexed Jaipur to his empire. By 405 BC he subdued the last of mahajanapadas. From period of 422 BC to 415 BC he annexed Sindh, Multan, Lahore, Kabul, Herat, Chagcharan, Anjuri, Kandahar, Karachi and Vellore. His Territories spread up to Kochi and Madurai in the South to Shardu and Danyor in the North, Murshidabad and Dakhinpara and Hamren in the East to Mand and Herat in the West in 413 BC."
"Mahanandin was a king of the Shishunaga dynasty of the Indian subcontinent. The dynasty ruled parts of ancient India around the city of Pataliputra (present day Patna, Bihar)."
Puranas list Nandivardhana as the ninth Shishunaga king and his son Mahanandin as the tenth and the last Shishunaga king.[1] Mahanandin was killed by his illegitimate son from a Shudra wife named Mahapadma Nanda.[2]
Defeat and death
Names
Reign
Relations with the Kalinga Kingdom
Sources
The Nanda Army
"According to Mahabodhivamsa, Dhana Nanda (Sanskrit: धनानन्द) was the last ruler of the Nanda dynasty. He was one of nine sons of Mahapadma Nanda. Plutarch tells that Androkottos or Chandragupta Maurya had stated that Nanda was hated and despised by his subjects on account of the wickedness of his disposition and meanness of his origin.[1][2][3]"
Dhana Nanda is referred to as Agrammes or Xandrames by Diodorus (Greek historian).[4] The name Agrammes is possibly a distorted form of the Sanskrit Augrasainya (son or descendent of Ugrasena).[4]
"Information about Dhana Nanda is available from Greek works of Curtius, Diodorus and Plutarch and Justin.[5]"
"Dhana Nanda inherited throne from his father Mahapadma Nanda.[6] Although it could be said that the Dhana Nanda dynasty was very unpopular among the people and the neighboring states, possible explanations of the unpopularity could be their financial extortion.[7]"
"Dhana Nanda is described as a powerful king who ruled over the Parsii (Prachya, i.e. the eastern people) and the Gangaridai (the people of the lower Ganga valley).[6][8] During his reign, the Nanda Empire extended from Bihar and Bengal in the east to Punjab and Sindh in the west. He had four ministers - Bandu, Subandu, Kubera and Sakatala.[9] Sakatala emptied Dhana Nanda's treasury for purchasing peace from Mleccha invaders. He was then punished by the King for the act by casting into a subterranean dungeon along with his family with handful of grains and little water. The food and water being sufficient for only one human, all died but Sakatala himself. The foreign kings invaded again and Nanda requested of Sakatala's assistance which he denied. Sakatala found Chanakya to take his revenge from Dhana Nanda by ending his rule.[10]"
"Although the relations of Kalinga kingdom and Nanda Dynasty weren't very companionable, there had been a brief period in the past where the relations were affable, when Prince Shauryananda wed Damyanti of Kalinga.[11] However, the relations were short lived as the marriage itself. The people of Kalinga despised the Magadha rulers, the Nanda dynasty, for belonging to Shudra varna and categorized them as barbaric. Dhana Nanda possessed similar aversion for Kalinga and its crown prince Kharasala."
"King Dhana Nanda inherited the vast empire of his father. The army of Emperor Dhana Nanda consisted of large number of cavalry, infantry, chariots and elephants. His army, as described by Diodorus and Quintus Curtius Rufus, consisted of 200,000 infantry, 20,000 cavalry, 2,000 war chariots and 3,000 war elephants.[6][12] According to Plutarch however, the size of the Nanda army was even larger, numbering 200,000 infantry, 80,000 cavalry, 8,000 war chariots, and 6,000 war elephants.[13]"
"According to Jain work Parishishtaparvan, he was allowed to leave Pataliputra along with his two wives after defeat from Chandragupta Maurya. He permitted his daughter to marry Chadragupta.[14][12]"
"The exact circumstances surrounding the death of Dhana Nanda are unclear. Some accounts suggest that Dhanananda was killed by Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of the Mauryan Empire, after the latter captured Pataliputra, the capital of Nandas. Other accounts however suggest that after Pataliputra was stealthily captured by Chanakya, Dhana Nanda was sent into exile and was never heard of again. It is also suggested that Dhana Nanda was killed on Chanakya's orders during exile, thus clearing the path for Chandragupta's kingship."
"Tani (Tibetan: ཏནི), aka Miric, Adi–Galo–Mishing–Nishi (Bradley 1997), or Abor–Miri–Dafla (Matisoff 2003), is a compact family of Sino-Tibetan languages situated at the eastern end of the Himalayas, in an area skirted on four sides by Tibet, Assam, Bhutan, and Burma."
"The Tani languages are spoken by about 600,000 people of Arunachal Pradesh, including the Adi, Apatani, Galo, Mising, Nyishi, Hill Miri, Tagin, and of the East Kameng, West Kameng, Papumpare, Lower Subansiri, Upper Subansiri, West Siang, East Siang, Upper Siang, Lower Dibang Valley and Lohit districts of Arunachal Pradesh and Dhemaji, North lakhimpur, etc. districts of Assam. In Arunachal Pradesh alone the Tani-speaking area covers some 40,000 square kilometers, or roughly half the size of the state. Scattered Tani communities spill over the Sino-Indian border into adjacent areas in Mêdog (Miguba people), Mainling (Bokar and Tagin peoples), and Lhünzê (Bangni, Na, Bayi, Dazu, and Mara peoples) counties of Tibet, where together with the non-Tani Idu and Taraõ they form the Lhoba nationality."
"The Tani languages are conservatively classified as a distinct branch in Sino-Tibetan. Their closest relatives may be their eastern neighbors the Digaro languages, Taraon and Idu; this was first suggested by Sun (1993), but a relationship has not yet been systematically demonstrated. It is not clear which are distinct languages at this point since some are undocumented."
Classification
"The Sal languages are a family of Sino-Tibetan languages spoken in eastern India, parts of Bangladesh, and Burma."
"Benedict (1972:7) noted that the Bodo–Garo, Konyak, and Jingpho (Kachin) languages, as well as the extinct Chairel language, shared distinctive roots for ""sun"" and ""fire"". Burling (1983) proposed a grouping of the Bodo–Garo, Koch, Konyak (Northern Naga) and Jingpho languages, characterized by several shared lexical innovations, including:"
"*sal ""sun"" *war ""fire"" *s-raŋ ""sky"" *wa ""father"" *nu ""mother"""
Jangil Native to India Region Andaman Islands Extinct ca. 1900–1920 Language family Ongan Jangil Language codes ISO 639-3 None (mis) Glottolog None
Comparative map showing distributions of various Andamanese tribes in the Andaman Islands - early 1800s versus present-day (2004). Notables: (a) Rapid depopulation of the original southeastern Jarawa homeland in the 1789-1793 period (b) Onge and Great Andamanese shrinkage to isolated settlements (c) Complete Jangil extinction by 1931 (d) Jarawa move to occupy depopulated former west coast homeland of the Great Andamanese (e) Only the Sentinelese zone is somewhat intact
"The Jangil (also Rutland Jarawa) were one of the Andamanese indigenous peoples of the Andaman Islands, located in the Bay of Bengal. They were distributed through the interior of Rutland Island, and were given the name Rutland Jarawa because it was supposed that they were related to the neighbouring Jarawa peoples. Since they were first encountered and documented in the mid-19th century, direct contacts with them remained scarce and they generally sought to avoid such encounters. There are only a few reported instances where outsiders (the British colonisers and Indian settlers) encountered individuals from the group, the last such case being in 1907. Expeditions sent to the interior of the island in the 1920s failed to find any signs of current habitation; their disappearance and extinction most likely the result of introduced diseases to which they had no natural immunity."
Flora and fauna
Visiting season
"Sri Lankamalleswara Wildlife Sanctuary Lankamala Wildlife Sanctuary IUCN category IV (habitat/species management area) Location Kadapa District, Andhra Pradesh, India Nearest city Kadapa Coordinates 14°36′N 78°53′E﻿ / ﻿14.600°N 78.883°E﻿ / 14.600; 78.883Coordinates: 14°36′N 78°53′E﻿ / ﻿14.600°N 78.883°E﻿ / 14.600; 78.883 Area 464.42 km2 (179.31 sq mi)"
"Sri Lankamalleswara Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary headquartered in Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh, India. It is the only habitat in the world which provides home for the Jerdon's courser, a highly endangered bird species.[1] In addition to that it is also a home to nearly 176 families of vegetation and living organisms.[2]"
The Sanctuary is well known for its habitation of the Jerdon's courser which is a critically endangered species. The bird was first discovered in 1848 by the surgeon-naturalist Thomas C. Jerdon and was thought to be extinct until its rediscovery in 1986.[3] The bird now inhabits the sparse scrub regions and forests of the Sri Lanka Malleshwara Sanctuary where the topography and weather conditions are compatible with its existence.
"The Sanctuary provides a home to nearly 1400 plant species and nearly 176 families of vegetation and living organisms. It has dry deciduous mixed thorn forests with deep gorges and steep slopes. Red Sanders, an endemic species, can be found here.[4] Its fauna includes the panther, sloth bear, cheetal, sambar, chowsingha, chinkara, nilgai, wild boar, fox and the Jerdon's courser.[5]"
"Though tourists are allowed to visit the sanctuary any time of the year, the best visiting period is between October to March.[6] The sanctuary can be reached easily. It is only 15 km far from the city of Kadapa which also has the nearest airport.[7]"
Tourist spots
"Chitrakoot Dham akash mishra Karwi city Chitrakoot Dham Coordinates: 25°12′N 80°54′E﻿ / ﻿25.2°N 80.9°E﻿ / 25.2; 80.9Coordinates: 25°12′N 80°54′E﻿ / ﻿25.2°N 80.9°E﻿ / 25.2; 80.9 Country India State Uttar Pradesh District Chitrakoot Government  • Chairman Neelam Karwaria Population (2001)  • Total 48,853 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 210205 Telephone code 05198 Vehicle registration UP-96 Website www.chitrakoot.nic.in"
"Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) is district headquarters and a municipal board in Chitrakoot district in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India."
"In past, Karwi city was a tehsil in Banda district. On 6 May 1997 Government of Uttar Pradesh carved out a new district Chitrakoot (Initially named as Chhatrapati Shahuji Mahraj- Nagar) from Banda district. Since then the city is serving as district headquarters."
"The city's coordinates are 25° North and 81° East. It is bounded in the north by Kaushambi, in the south by Satna(M.P.) & Rewa (M.P.), in the east by Allahabad (Prayag), in the west by Banda. Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) is situated on the bank of River Mandakini."
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) had a population of 48,853. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) has an average literacy rate of 67%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with male literacy of 75% and female literacy of 58%. 16% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Mahatma Gandhi Chitrakoot Gramoday University (situated in Madhya Pradesh Region of Chitrakoot) Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University, Sitapur Goshwami Tulshidas Government College Sanskrit College, Taronha Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj Girls Degree College"
"Road: Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) falls on National Highway 76 (NH 76) stretched from Pindwara to Allahabad via Udaipur, Chittaurgarh, Kota, Shivpuri, Jhansi and Banda. City is also linked with roadways to all adjoining districts of Banda, Allahabad, Satna, Rewa and Kaushambi. National highways are really in bad condition."
Ramghat: This is a main ghat in Chitrakoot. Do boating here. you should pay around 100–150 rs for a one-hour personal shikara (Big Boat) booking. Many of them have pet rabbits on the boats and playing with them would be really fun for the kids. Tulsidas status is there on the ghat. Bharat Milap temple is also there on this ghat. you can cover this in around 2 hours. Daily arati happens at 6PM in the evening and you should find some time to secure a place to attend the arati. This is a central place in Chitrakoot and related distance to other main attraction are listed below.
History of the temple
Yadadri Temple Lakshminarasimha Swamy Temple Gopuram Yadadri Temple Location in Telangana Show map of Telangana Yadadri Temple Location in Telangana Show map of India Name Proper name యాదగిరిగుట్ట యాదాద్రి Geography Coordinates 17°35′21″N 78°56′41″E﻿ / ﻿17.5892°N 78.9446°E﻿ / 17.5892; 78.9446Coordinates: 17°35′21″N 78°56′41″E﻿ / ﻿17.5892°N 78.9446°E﻿ / 17.5892; 78.9446 Country India State Telangana District Bhuvanagiri Location Bhongir Culture Primary deity Lord Narasimha Architecture Architectural styles Dravidian
"Yadagirigutta also known as Yadadri,[1] is a popular hindu temple situated on a hillock in Yadagirigutta of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district of the Indian state of Telangana. The temple is an abode of Narasimha, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu."
"Yadagiri is named after a sage named Yadava who performed heavy austerities to Lord Vishnu as Narasimha.Being please with him the lord gave him darshan in three forms: Jwala Narasimha, Gandabheranda Narasimha and Yogananda Narasimha.Sage Yadava begged for the lord to remain on the hill in these forms.Thus, you have the Lakshmi-Narasimhadeva temple on the hilltop with deities of Lord in all three forms embedded in stone in the main cave.Actually,it is a cave about 12 feet high by 30 feet long,located in back of the temple hall,by the rear pillar.You take a stairway down into the chamber and then toward the back. Jwala Narasimha is in the shape of serpent, while Yogananda Narasimha appears sitting in meditation in yoga pose. You will also see silver deities of Lakshmi-Narasimha, which are quite striking in appearance and lends presence of seeing them. To the right of the temple main door is a Hanuman temple. You'll see a long horizontal gap in the rock just below Hanuman. This is said to be where Gandabheranda Narasimha manifested. This is a very popular temple.It is said that any wish of sincere devotee visiting this temple will be fulfilled.[2][3] The sanctum sanctorum or Garbhagriha is located in a cave, under a huge slating rock, which covers half the abode."
"The Chief Minister of Telangana, Kalvakuntla Chandrashekar Rao directed the officials for the renovation of the temple, and approved a final layout.[4]"
"Yadagirigutta is about 60 km (approx. 38 miles) from Hyderabad and is well connected by both Rail and Road. The nearest Railway station is Raigiri (about 3 km) for passenger trains. After alighting at Raigiri, one can take an auto rickshaw or Tanga."
Yadagirigutta Temple
Languages
National protected area
"Palamu district पलामू ज़िला District of Jharkhand Location of Palamu district in Jharkhand Country India State Jharkhand Administrative division Palamu Headquarters Daltonganj Government  • Lok Sabha constituencies 1. Palamu, 2. Chatra (shared with Chatra district)  • Assembly seats 5 Area  • Total 5,044 km2 (1,947 sq mi) Major highways NH 75, NH 98 Website Official website"
"Palamau is one of the twenty-four districts of Jharkhand state, India. It was formed in 1892. The administrative headquarter of the district is Daltonganj, situated on the Koel River."
"The district lies between 23°50′ and 24°8′ north latitude and between 83°55′ and 84°30′ east longitude. It is bordered on the north by Sone River & Bihar and on the east by the Chatra and Hazaribagh districts, on the south by Latehar District and on the west by Garhwa District."
Betla National Park
Palamu district consists of 21 Blocks. The following are the list of the Blocks in Palamu district:
"According to the 2011 census Palamu district has a population of 24,36,319,[2] roughly equal to the nation of Lesotho[3] or the US state of West Virginia.[4] This gives it a ranking of 243rd in India (out of a total of 640).[2] The district has a population density of 381 inhabitants per square kilometre (990/sq mi) .[2] Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 25.94%.[2] Palamu has a sex ratio of 929 females for every 1000 males,[2] and a literacy rate of 65.5%.[2]"
"Languages spoken here include Asuri, an Austroasiatic language spoken by approximately 17 000 in India, largely in the southern part of Palamu;[5] and [Magahi Language] group with almost 40 000 000 speakers, written in both the Devanagari and Kaithi scripts.[6]"
"The only university in Medininagar (Daltonganj) is Nilamber-Pitamber University, created on the 17th of January, 2009.[7][8] The Chief Minister of Jharkhand declared that the Nilamber-Pitamber University would be set up in Medininagar (Daltonganj) in 2001.[9] There are 66 primary schools, 30 middle schools, 17 Navsirijit schools, 10 high schools and 1 Engineering College in the Daltonganj block.[10]"
"Chatarpur छतरपुर Block Nickname(s): छतरपुर Chatarpur Show map of Jharkhand Chatarpur Show map of India Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°22′N 84°11′E﻿ / ﻿24.37°N 84.19°E﻿ / 24.37; 84.19Coordinates: 24°22′N 84°11′E﻿ / ﻿24.37°N 84.19°E﻿ / 24.37; 84.19 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Chatarpur Government  • MLA Radha Krishna Kishore Bharatiya Janata Party Population (2001)  • Total 166,843 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822113 Vehicle registration JH Website http://palamu.nic.in/Chatarpur.html"
"Chatarpur block is one of the administrative community development block of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India. This is one of the important block/Taluka from jharkhand situated at National Highway 98 (India)(old numbering). According to census (2001), the block has 27,271 households with aggregate population of 166,843. The block has 240 villages."
"Hariharganj Block Hariharganj Show map of Jharkhand Hariharganj Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°30′N 84°16′E﻿ / ﻿24.50°N 84.27°E﻿ / 24.50; 84.27Coordinates: 24°30′N 84°16′E﻿ / ﻿24.50°N 84.27°E﻿ / 24.50; 84.27 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Hariharganj Government  • Hariharganj Hariharganj Area  • Total 240.72 km2 (92.94 sq mi) Elevation 108 m (354 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 87,499  • Density 360/km2 (940/sq mi) Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Telephone code 06566 Vehicle registration JH Website palamu.nic.in/Hariharganj.html"
"Hariharganj block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India.[1] According to census (2001), the block has 13,579 households with aggregate population of 87,499. The block has 194 villages."
"Hariharganj lies on the border of the Palamu district, along the National Highway 98. The people of this region primarily speak Magadhi."
"Hariharganj is located at 24°30′N 84°16′E﻿ / ﻿24.50°N 84.27°E﻿ / 24.50; 84.27. It has an average elevation of 10,000 yards (9,100 m)."
"Durga Mandir is situated in Durga sthan, Gopal mandir and Hanuman mandir is situated at main bazar and two Bus Stand Old and New. It has two movie theaters, Mani Talkies and the Mani Theater."
Location in Jharkhand
Naxalite influence
"Lesliganj लेसलीगंज Block Nickname(s): लेसलीगंज Lesliganj Show map of Jharkhand Lesliganj Show map of India Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°02′N 84°12′E﻿ / ﻿24.03°N 84.20°E﻿ / 24.03; 84.20Coordinates: 24°02′N 84°12′E﻿ / ﻿24.03°N 84.20°E﻿ / 24.03; 84.20 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Lesliganj Government  • MLA Bidesh Singh Indian National Congress Area  • Total 18,523.01 ha (45,771.35 acres) Population (2001)  • Total 79,345  • Density 430/km2 (1,100/sq mi)  • Households 14,502 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Population (census 2001)  • Male 40370  • Female 38975  • Total Literate (Male) 21743  • Total Literate (Female) 10641  • Total Literate 32384 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822118 Vehicle registration JH Website palamu.nic.in/Lesliganj.html"
"Lesliganj block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India."
"Lesliganj is a historic place; it wasan army camp during British rule in India and hence also called Chauni (means ""place where force makes camp""). This is the place where the martyr brothers Nilamber and Pitamber were hanged by the British. That is why people also demand its name to be Nilamber and Pitamber Nagar."
"Lesliganj is a town in Palamu District in the Indian state of Jharkhand. It is located about 18 km from Daltonganj, the district headquarters and around 210 km from State capital Ranchi. It is a major town and is close to the townships of Satbarwa (16 km south), Kundri (6 km east) and Patan (19 km north)."
Betla National Park is a nearby attraction not quite in Lesliganj but accessible from Daltonganj.
"It is a naxalite-prone area, with their presence frequently observed in interior villages."
"Pipra पीपरा Block Nickname(s): पीपरा Pipra Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°31′N 84°17′E﻿ / ﻿24.52°N 84.28°E﻿ / 24.52; 84.28Coordinates: 24°31′N 84°17′E﻿ / ﻿24.52°N 84.28°E﻿ / 24.52; 84.28 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Pipra Government  • MLA Radha Krishna Kishore Bharatiya Janata Party Population (2001)  • Total 146,139 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822113 Website palamu.nic.in/patan.html"
"Pipra Block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India."
"Pandu पांडु Block Nickname(s): पांडु Pandu Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°19′N 83°58′E﻿ / ﻿24.32°N 83.96°E﻿ / 24.32; 83.96Coordinates: 24°19′N 83°58′E﻿ / ﻿24.32°N 83.96°E﻿ / 24.32; 83.96 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Pandu Government  • MLA RAMCHANDRA CHANDRAVANSI Bharatiya Janata Party Population (2001)  • Total 74,464 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822124 Website palamu.nic.in/pandu.html"
"Pandu block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India. According to census (2001), the block has a population of 74,464. The block has 71 villages. It is named for Pandu."
History
"Ramgarh block Palamu is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand, India. It is also knows as Horanda."
"Horanda Alias Ramgarh a Taluka/Block, close to Medininager Palamu, is located 27 km from Medininagar (Daltonganj). Horanda is a part of Daltonganj (Vidhan Sabha constituency)."
"Satbarwa सतबरवा Block Nickname(s): सतबरवा Satbarwa Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°55′N 84°15′E﻿ / ﻿23.92°N 84.25°E﻿ / 23.92; 84.25Coordinates: 23°55′N 84°15′E﻿ / ﻿23.92°N 84.25°E﻿ / 23.92; 84.25 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Satbarwa Government  • MLA HARIKRISHN SINGH Bharatiya Janata Party Population (2001)  • Total 146,139 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822126 Website palamu.nic.in/Satbarwa.html"
"Satbarwa block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India. It is one of the important block/Taliuka in National Highway 75 (India)(old numbering). According to census (2001), the block has 9,385 households with aggregate population of 52,541. The block has 58 villages."
See also
"Mohammadganj मोहम्मदगंज Block Nickname(s): मोहम्मदगंज Mohammadganj Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°12′N 84°10′E﻿ / ﻿24.20°N 84.17°E﻿ / 24.20; 84.17Coordinates: 24°12′N 84°10′E﻿ / ﻿24.20°N 84.17°E﻿ / 24.20; 84.17 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Mohammadganj Government  • MLA KUSHWAHA SHIVPUJAN MEHTA Independent candidate Population (2001)  • Total 146,139 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822120 Website palamu.nic.in/Mohammadganj.html"
"Muhammadganj is a tourist place located in Hussainabad, Jharkhand India, (also a newly Jharkhand's block located in the south of Haidernagar). There is tourist palace is called Bhim Chulha,[1] located beside the BHEEM BARRAGE(The Project of old Bihar Government project now it is in Jharkhand). Schools in Mohammadganj"
"Chainpur block (Palamu district) is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India. The block contains 35 panchayats. [1]"
According to 2011 census
"Manatu मनातु Block Nickname(s): मनातु Manatu Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°14′N 84°24′E﻿ / ﻿24.23°N 84.40°E﻿ / 24.23; 84.40Coordinates: 24°14′N 84°24′E﻿ / ﻿24.23°N 84.40°E﻿ / 24.23; 84.40 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Manatu Government  • MLA Radha Krishna Kishore Bharatiya Janata Party Population (2001)  • Total 97,622 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822123 Website palamu.nic.in/Manatu.html"
"Manatu block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand state, India. According to census (2001), the block has 18,083 households with aggregate population of 97,622. The block has 190 villages."
"Panki पांकी Block Nickname(s): पांकी Panki Location in jharkhand, India Coordinates: 24°02′N 84°28′E﻿ / ﻿24.03°N 84.47°E﻿ / 24.03; 84.47Coordinates: 24°02′N 84°28′E﻿ / ﻿24.03°N 84.47°E﻿ / 24.03; 84.47 Country  India State Jharkhand District Palamu Block Panki Government  • MLA Bittu Singh Indian National Congress Population (2001)  • Total 123,820 Languages  • Official Magahi, Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 822122 Website palamu.nic.in/panki.html"
"Panki Block is one of the administrative blocks of Palamu district, Jharkhand, a state in India. According to census (2001), the block has 21,687 households with aggregate population of 123,820. The block has 200 villages."
Panki block
Overview
"Anthropological Survey of India The Indian Museum, Kolkata, the headquarters of AnSI Abbreviation AnSI Formation 1945 Headquarters Kolkata Parent organisation Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India Website http://www.ansi.gov.in/default.htm"
"Anthropological Survey of India (AnSI) is the apex Indian organisation involved in anthropological studies and field data research for human and cultural aspects, working primarily in the fields of physical anthropology and cultural anthropology.[1] While maintaining a strong focus on indigenous populations, it also attempts to document the cultures of other communities and religious groups."
Anthropological Research in India was founded 1945 in Varanasi and shifted to the Indian Museum at Calcutta in 1948.[2]
"In 1916, the Zoological and Anthropological sections of the Museum together became a new entity the Zoological Survey of India. Later, in 1945, the Anthropology section formed into an independent body, the Anthropological Survey of India (AnSI),[3] with Biraja Sankar Guha as the initial director and Verrier Elwin, Deputy Director."
"Directors Biraja Sankar Guha, 1945-1954 N.K. Dutta Mazumdar, 1954-1958 Nirmal Kumar Bose, 1959-1964 D.K. Sen, 1964-1970 Surajit Chandra Sinha, 1972-1975 Kumar Suresh Singh, 1976-1977 H.K. Rakshit, 1978-1982 A.K. Danda, 1984-1990 R.S. Mann, 1991-1992 T.N. Pandit, 1992-1992 R.K. Bhattacharya, 1993-2003 V.R. Rao, 2003–Present"
"Operating under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, it is headquartered in Kolkata and has branches in Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar), Shillong, Dehra Dun, Udaipur, Nagpur (with Central Library of AnSI), and Mysore (established in 1960),[4] in addition to two field stations at Jagdalpur in Bastar district, Chhattisgarh and at Ranchi, Jharkhand. The Central Museum of AnSI is located at Kolkata, whereas Zonal Anthropological Museums at six regional and one sub-regional centres."
Geography
Language
"Bundu city Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Government  • Type Municipal corporation Elevation 337 m (1,106 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 21,054 Languages  • Official Hindi, Panch Pargana, Bangali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration JH"
"Bundu is a town, a notified area, in Ranchi district in the state of Jharkhand, India."
Bundu is located at 23°11′N 85°35′E﻿ / ﻿23.18°N 85.58°E﻿ / 23.18; 85.58.[1] It has an average elevation of 337 metres (1105 feet). It is located on National Highway-33 between Ranchi and Jamshedpur and blessed with all the natural beauties. It is surrounded by mountains and forest. Surya Mandir and Dassam Falls are main attraction and tourist spots.
"As of 2001 India census,[2] Bundu had a population of 18,505. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Bundu has an average literacy rate of 61%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with male literacy of 72% and female literacy of 49%. 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
The most popular language of this town is Panchpargania used as a common language for communication by more than 75% inhabitants. Other popular languages are Bengali and Hindi.
"Bundu, India"
"Hatia town Hatia Show map of Jharkhand Hatia Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°18′N 85°18′E﻿ / ﻿23.30°N 85.30°E﻿ / 23.30; 85.30Coordinates: 23°18′N 85°18′E﻿ / ﻿23.30°N 85.30°E﻿ / 23.30; 85.30 Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Elevation 641 m (2,103 ft) Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali, Ho Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration JH"
"Hatia is a small town and railway station in Ranchi district, Jharkhand, India. It is adjacent to Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand. One of the premier technical institutions in the field of Metallurgical engineering, the National Institute of Foundry and Forge Technology, is situated here. Hatia developed as a suburb of Ranchi, the capital city of Jharkhand. Away from the rush in the main city, this part of Ranchi is comparatively quiet and calm. With HEC developing a huge infrastructural set up in the area, Hatia is one of the largest and most well-maintained dwelling destinations in Ranchi."
"Besides NIFFT, one of the largest engineering companies in India, the Heavy Engineering Corporation, is situated in Hatia.."
"Hatia is located at 23°18′N 85°18′E﻿ / ﻿23.30°N 85.30°E﻿ / 23.30; 85.30.[1] It has an average elevation of 641 m (2,103 ft)."
"Hatia Station is the railway station serving the city of Hatia. It serves as the terminal station of several train, and many trains pass through it."
"Khelari city Khelari Show map of Jharkhand Khelari Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°39′N 85°00′E﻿ / ﻿23.65°N 85.00°E﻿ / 23.65; 85.00Coordinates: 23°39′N 85°00′E﻿ / ﻿23.65°N 85.00°E﻿ / 23.65; 85.00 Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Named for Coal Population (2001)  • Total 53,214 Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) 829205 06531 Vehicle registration JH"
"Khelari is a census town in the Ranchi district of Indian State of Jharkhand.It is an area rich in coal.Khelari has a beautiful railway station which has important value for the people of Khelari and nearby area as many trains such as Palamou Express and Shaktipunj Express stop here.Khelari is very well connected with Delhi,Ranchi,Kolkata,Daltonganj,Dhanbad etc. Some of the important coal mines of CCL is in Khelari"
"As of 2001 India census,[1] Khelari had a population of 18,699. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Khelari has an average literacy rate of 59%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 69%, and female literacy is 49%. In Khelari, 14% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"Rampur village Rampur Show map of Jharkhand Rampur Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°17′0″N 85°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.28333°N 85.43333°E﻿ / 23.28333; 85.43333Coordinates: 23°17′0″N 85°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.28333°N 85.43333°E﻿ / 23.28333; 85.43333 Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Elevation 614 m (2,014 ft) Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Coastline 0 kilometres (0 mi)"
"Rampur is a town in Ranchi district, Jharkhand, India."
It is located at 23°17′0″N 85°26′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.28333°N 85.43333°E﻿ / 23.28333; 85.43333 at an elevation of 614 m from MSL.[1]
National Highway 33 passes through Rampur.
"Tati city Tati Show map of Jharkhand Tati Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°22′N 85°26′E﻿ / ﻿23.37°N 85.43°E﻿ / 23.37; 85.43Coordinates: 23°22′N 85°26′E﻿ / ﻿23.37°N 85.43°E﻿ / 23.37; 85.43 Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Population (2001)  • Total 10,496 Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration JH"
Tati (or Tatisilwai) is a census town in Ranchi district in the Indian state of Jharkhand.
"Tati, Ranchi"
Places of interest
"Ormanjhi village Ormanjhi Show map of Jharkhand Ormanjhi Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 23°29′0″N 85°29′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.48333°N 85.48333°E﻿ / 23.48333; 85.48333Coordinates: 23°29′0″N 85°29′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.48333°N 85.48333°E﻿ / 23.48333; 85.48333 Country  India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Elevation 607 m (1,991 ft) Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 835219 Vehicle registration JH Coastline 0 kilometres (0 mi)"
"Ormanjhi is a town in Ranchi district, Jharkhand, India. It is the headquarters of the Ormanjhi Block, one of the twenty administrative blocks of Ranchi district. Ormanjhi is known for picnic spots. Two big hospitals, Apollo and HCG, are located in Ormanjhi. Sikidiri Hydroelectricity power plant is also located near Ormanjhi. Actually ormanjhi is firstly famous only for Sikidiri."
It is located at 23°29′0″N 85°29′0″E﻿ / ﻿23.48333°N 85.48333°E﻿ / 23.48333; 85.48333 at an elevation of 607 m from MSL.[1]
National Highway 33 passes through Ormanjhi. Nearest airport is Ranchi Airport and nearest railway station is at Ranchi.
Jaivik Udyan Zoological Park Gonda Hill Hutup Ranchi Hill Ranchi Lake Tagore Hill Getalsud Dam
Ormanjhi
"Kanke city Kanke Show map of Jharkhand Kanke Show map of India Coordinates: 23°26′N 85°19′E﻿ / ﻿23.43°N 85.32°E﻿ / 23.43; 85.32Coordinates: 23°26′N 85°19′E﻿ / ﻿23.43°N 85.32°E﻿ / 23.43; 85.32 Country India State Jharkhand District Ranchi Elevation 611 m (2,005 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 17,560 Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration JH"
"Kanke is a census town in Ranchi district in the Indian state of Jharkhand. Kanke has a large water reservoir called Kanke Dam, which is used to supply water to Ranchi city. The Kanke Mental Asylum (one of the largest in India) and Central Institute of Psychiatry (formerly known as European Mental Hospital) was started by the British who thought that the cooler climate of Ranchi would be salubrious to mental health. Birsa Agricultural University,[1] Institute for Coal Management, Birsa Veterinary Institute, and few other institutions are also located in Kanke."
Kanke is located at 23°26′N 85°19′E﻿ / ﻿23.43°N 85.32°E﻿ / 23.43; 85.32.[2] It has an average elevation of 611 metres (2004 feet).
Hospitals
Religion
"Hutup is a small village in Ormanjhi tehsil, Ranchi district, Jharkhand, India. It is one of 91 villages in Ormanjhi Block along with villages like Koilari and Karma. Its nearest railway station is in Ranchi, accessible via National Highway 23.[1]"
In Hutup there are private and public schools. In private schools the family needs to pay the fees. Poor families can send their children to government schools without paying any fees.
"Medanta Hospital – Previously called Apollo Hospital, this is a private hospital and the most well-known hospital in Hutup. It is located on NH33 Road. Many patients come there for treatment, especially soldiers after receiving gunshot wounds. Yuwa girls have insurance cards so that they can get treatment at half price. Shalini Hospital – This hospital is used for emergencies by villagers, including pregnant women. It is located on Rukka Road. This hospital offers free treatment to those with health cards."
"Devi Temple is one of the oldest temples. It was built by the villagers. The Christian villagers worship at Jesu Bhavan, which is next to Yuwa School. The Muslims have a masjid to worship at, near Karma village."
Hutup
Bhumijes in West Bengal
"Bhumij Total population 800,000+ Regions with significant populations               West Bengal 336,436               Odisha 240,000+               Jharkhand 160,000+ Languages Mundari Religion Hinduism, traditional beliefs Related ethnic groups Mundas  • Santals  • Kols  • Hos"
"Bhumij are a tribal/Adivasi people living primarily in the Indian states of Assam, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand, mostly in the old Singhbhum district. They speak the Mundari language of the Austroasiatic language family or sometimes the predominant local language such as Bengali."
"In the 2001 census, they numbered 336,436 in West Bengal, accounting for 7.6 per cent of the scheduled caste population of the state.[1] In Odisha, Bhumijes had a population ranging from 248,144 to 321,592 and were among the twelve most populous tribes.[2] In Jharkhand Bhumijes were one of the eight most populous tribes, their population ranging between 164,022 and 192,024.[3] In Assam Bhumij had a population around 150000. Bhumij means one who is born from the soil. They form one of the Hinduised Adivasi groups in Jharkhand.[4] Bhumij Kols have adopted the surname 'Singh.'[5]"
"In the western districts of West Bengal, there are prominent groups of Bhumijes, although numerically they are considerably behind the Santals and Bauris. They live in the territory between the Kasai and Subarnarekha rivers. In olden days they probably had settlements north of the Kasai, possibly right up to Panchakot, but were pushed back by the Aryans, represented by the Kurmis. Their present area of settlement is spread across Dhalbhum, Barabhum, Patkum and Baghmundi.[6]"
"While those living nearer to Chota Nagpur Plateau still retain linguistic links with Mundari, those living deeper east have adopted Bengali as their language. In the Dhalbhum region they are completely Hinduized. During British rule, or sometimes even earlier, many of the Bhumijes became zamindars and some even secured the title of Raja. Others were called Sardars. However, all of them, having climbed the social ladder, proclaimed themselves to be Kshatriyas, in keeping with the trends in the region, ignorant of their rich contribution to the traditions and culture of the region.[6]"
History and origin
Present circumstances
"Chero Total population (161,000 [1]) Regions with significant populations •  India Languages • Hindi Religion • Hinduism 100% • Related ethnic groups • Panika • Parahiya • Bind"
"The Chero are scheduled caste, found in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, in North India.[2]"
"Chhatabar is a village in the Maneswar block of Sambalpur district in Orissa, India, located around 15 km from the district headquarters Sambalpur. It is surrounded by the green nature and hills bearing some picnic spots around it.[1] Kosli language is used for formal communication purpose."
"Kesaibahal is a village in Sambalpur district, Odisha, India. It is also one of the panchayat of Bamra block."
Kesaibahal
Places of worship
"Bilaspur ବିଳାସପୁର Village Bilaspur Location in Orissa, India Coordinates: IN 19°31′22″N 84°56′39″E﻿ / ﻿19.522851°N 84.944243°E﻿ / 19.522851; 84.944243Coordinates: IN 19°31′22″N 84°56′39″E﻿ / ﻿19.522851°N 84.944243°E﻿ / 19.522851; 84.944243 Country  India State Orissa District Ganjam Elevation 54 m (177 ft) Population (2001)  • Total 300 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 761019 Telephone code 06811"
"Bilaspur is a small village located in the Khalikote block of Ganjam District, India. It comes under Khalikote legislative assembly and Aska Lok Sabha seat. It was started as a Brahmana Sashana (a village inhibited by Brahmins) on a land donated by the then King of Khalikote."
"There are around 60 houses in the village, and the population is around 300. The primary occupation of the populace is predominantly agriculture, in addition to many of the villagers practice priesthood and karma kanda (Hindu rituals). The Kharakhari River flows to the north of the village, and provides irrigation for the village. It's not a perennial river."
"There are four temples in the village, named as ""Loknath Temple"", ""Laxminrusinga temple"", kanoka durga and ""Thakurani Temple""."
There is a primary school that teaches from class-I and class-V. Kids to Pratapur or Bedha Nalikhyapura for further education.in pratapur there is a high school tumbanath bisya pitha is a very good educational environment and the teachers educate their students well in this school for classes 6th to 10th.
The village pond
Birds
Butterflies
Climate
Flora
Mammals
Other links
Reptiles
"Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary Bhadra Tiger Reserve Wildlife Sanctuary Tigers watching gaurs in Bhardra WLS Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary Location in Karnataka, India Coordinates: 13°28′N 75°40′E﻿ / ﻿13.467°N 75.667°E﻿ / 13.467; 75.667Coordinates: 13°28′N 75°40′E﻿ / ﻿13.467°N 75.667°E﻿ / 13.467; 75.667 Country  India State Karnataka District Chikkamagaluru District and Shivamogga district Established 1951[1] Area  • Total 492.46 km2 (190.14 sq mi) Elevation 1,875 m (6,152 ft) Languages  • Official Kannada Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Nearest city Chikkamagaluru IUCN category IV Governing body Government of India, MOEF, Project Tiger, Karnataka Forest Department Precipitation 2,100 millimetres (83 in) Avg. summer temperature 32 °C (90 °F) Avg. winter temperature 10 °C (50 °F)"
"Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary is a protected area and a Project Tiger, tiger reserve located 38 km (24 mi). Northwest of Chikkamagaluru town in Karnataka state, India.[2] Bhadra sanctuary has a wide range of flora and fauna and is a popular place for day outings. The 1,875 m (6,152 ft) above MSL Hebbe Giri is the highest peak in the sanctuary."
"Bhadra sanctuary consists of two adjacent sections. The main western Lakkavalli-Muthodi section lies from 13˚22’ to 13˚47’ N latitude, 75˚29’ to 75˚45’ E longitude and the smaller eastern Bababudangiri section from 13˚30’ to 13˚33’ N latitude and 75˚44’ to 75˚47’ E longitude."
Temperatures vary from 10˚ to 35°C and mean annual rainfall varies from 1200 mm to 2600 mm.[3]
"The area was first declared as 'Jagara Valley Wildlife Sanctuary' in 1951 by the then government of Mysore covering an area of 77.45 km2 (29.90 sq mi). After a systematic survey of the flora and the fauna of the area and its surroundings, the area was extended to its present extent and renamed to Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary in 1974.[2]"
The Wildlife Sanctuary was declared as a Project Tiger Tiger Reserve in 1998. Bhadra is the first tiger reserve in the country to complete a successful village relocation program. The original relocation plan was introduced in 1974 and was implemented completely by 2002 when the 26 villages in the sanctuary were successfully relocated to M C Halli which is about 50 km (31 mi) from the Sanctuary.[4]
"Bhadra supports more than 120 plant species. One typical 2 ha (4.9 acres) of tropical dry deciduous forest had 46 species, 37 genera and 24 families. Combretaceae was the most abundant family in the forest. Indigoberry (Randia dumetorum) was the dominant species.[5]"
"An estimated 33 tigers are found in Bhadra. Other mammals in the sanctuary include elephant, gaur, sloth bear, wild boar, black leopard, jungle cat, jackal, wild dog, sambar, spotted deer, barking deer, mouse deer, common langur, bonnet macaque, slender loris, small Indian civet, common palm civet, pangolin, porcupine, flying squirrel and the Malabar giant squirrel.[4][6]"
Large mammal census of Bhadra[2] Tiger 25 33 Leopard 22 21 Elephant 161 203 Guar 139 186 Chital 780 Sambar 518 Bonnet macaque 248 Wild boar 470 Muntjac 749
"Some of the reptiles commonly sighted in this park are common vine snake, king cobra, common cobra, Russell's viper, bamboo pit viper, rat snake, olive keelback, common wolf snake, common Indian monitor, Draco or gliding lizards and marsh crocodiles.[6]"
"Bhadra sanctuary has more than 300 species of birds, some endemic to this region and some migratory.[4] Some of the species are grey junglefowl, red spurfowl, painted bush quail, emerald dove, southern green imperial pigeon, great black woodpecker, Malabar parakeet, hill myna, ruby-throated bulbul, shama, Malabar trogon, Malabar whistling thrush, four species of hornbill and racquet-tailed drongo."
"Some of the butterflies in Bhadra sanctuary are yamfly, baronet, crimson rose butterfly, southern birdwing, tailed jay, great orange tip, bamboo tree brown, and blue pansy."
Sidi Native to India Region Gujarat Extinct mid 20th century Language family Niger–Congo Atlantic–Congo Benue–Congo Bantoid Bantu Northeast Coast Sabaki Swahili Sidi Language codes ISO 639-3 None (mis) Glottolog None Guthrie code G.404[1]
"Sidi, also known as Habsi (Abyssinian), is an extinct Bantu language of India, descended from Swahili. It was reported to still be spoken in the mid 20th century in Kathiawar, Gujarat.[2]"
Geographical distribution
"Malvani मालवणी Pronunciation malvaɳi (standard) malvani (popular) Native to India Region Konkan, Malvan, Maharashtra, Goa Native speakers 870,000 (date missing) Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan Southern Zone Marathi–Konkani Konkani Malvani Writing system Devanagari Language codes ISO 639-3 – Linguist list gom-kud Glottolog None"
"Malvani (Northern Konkani) is a dialect of Konkani with significant Marathi influences and loanwords.[1] Though Malvani does not have a unique script, scripts of the other languages native to the regions its speakers inhabit are used. Devanagari is used by most of the speakers. Malvani is very popular language used for newspaper articles and dramas. But however, Bhats (Chitpavans and Deshasthas) have given up speaking this dialect and have adopted proper Marathi instead. Malvani is still safe from 'language death', particularly due to locals of lower-caste communities (Marathas, Bhandari Vanies, Kundbis, Saraswats, Daivajna Saraswats, etc.) who tirelessly continue to preserve this traditional dialect. It is also known as Kudali."
"All pronouns have a change from la to ka. Words in Marathi for yes, where, here, there, have different Malvani counterparts. Other grammatical nuances differ from standard-spoken Marathi."
"Malvani is spoken in the southern part of Konkan Vibhag[2] i.e. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts; chiefly in the towns of Ratnagiri, Rajapur, Devgad, Malvan, Kudal, Kankavli, Sawantwadi and Vengurla. The language is also spoken in North Goa, especially Pernem taluka. The Census Board of India counts Malvani as a Konkani dialect (which is official language of State of Goa). According to Census Board of India, there are around 46851 Malwani speakers throughout the country, with 24 Lakh (2.4 million) Konkani living speakers. According to unofficial reports, around 8,68,825 (868,825) Malvani speakers live throughout the Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts."
"Tamralipta or Tamralipti Odia: ତାମ୍ରଲିପ୍ତୀ was the name of an ancient city on the Bay of Bengal believed by scholars to be on the site of ancient Odisha [1] in Midnapore district of modern-day India in West Bengal . It is believed that Tamralipti was the exit point of the Mauryan trade route for the south and south-east.[2] Excavations at Moghalmari confirmed the presence of Buddhist vihars in the area which was mentioned by Chinese travelers Fa Hien and Xuanzang.[3] It was located near Rupnarayana river. This place has been mentioned in Mahabharata as a place which Bhima acquired. It was linked by roads with the major towns of that time, i.e. Rajagriha, Shravasti, Pataliputra, Varanasi, Champa, Kaushambi and Taxila. [4]"
Administration
"South Reef Island is an island of the Andaman Islands. It belongs to the North and Middle Andaman administrative district, part of the Indian union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.[6] the island is lying 117 km (73 mi) north from Port Blair."
The island belongs to the Interview Group and is situated to the west of Austen Strait which separates North Andaman Island and Middle Andaman Island. The island is low and with a rectangular shape.
"Politically, South Reef Island, along neighboring Interview Group Islands, is part of Mayabunder Taluk.[7]"
"Mata Gujri (1624–1705), also known as Mata Gujari, was the wife of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Guru of Sikhism, and the mother of Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Guru of Sikhism."
"Mata Gujri was the daughter of Bhāī Lāl Chand subhiki khatri and Bishan Kaur, of Kartarpur. She married Guru Tegh Bahadur at Kartarpur on 4 February 1633 and joined her husband's family in Amritsar. In 1635 the family moved to Kiratpur and, on the death in 1644 of Guru Tegh Bahadur's father, Guru Hargobind, Mata Gujri moved with her husband and mother-in-law, Mata Nanaki, to Bakala, near Amritsar.[1]"
"Soon after he was installed as Guru in 1664, Guru Tegh Bahadur founded a new village, which he called Chakk Nanaki, after his mother. The place, now a city, is now known as Anandpur Sahib. Not long after this, the Guru set out on a long journey, leaving his wife and mother-in-law at Patna. On 22 December 1666 Mata Gujri gave birth to Gobind Rai, who later became Guru Gobind Singh.[1]"
Mata Gujri
Gautam Budha Wildlife Sanctuary (also spelled Gautam Buddha) is a wildlife sanctuary located in Gaya district of Bihar state and Koderma district of Jharkhand state in east-central India.
"The refuge was established in 1976, and covers an area of 259 km2. Prior to becoming a wildlife refuge, the area was a private hunting reserve.[1]"
"The refuge covers portions of the Lower Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests and Chota Nagpur dry deciduous forests ecoregions. Plant communities include dry and moist sal (Shorea robusta) forests, ravine thorn forest, and tropical dry riverine forest.[2]"
"Fauna include tigers, leopards, wolves, sloth bears, chitals, chinkaras, and many species of birds."
"The sanctuary has a rest house. The refuge is 65 km southeast of Gaya, which has a railway station and airport."
Gautam Budha Wildlife Sanctuary
Transport
"Mango माँगो City Mango Show map of Jharkhand Mango Show map of India Location in Jharkhand, India Coordinates: 22°49′39″N 86°12′59″E﻿ / ﻿22.82750°N 86.21639°E﻿ / 22.82750; 86.21639Coordinates: 22°49′39″N 86°12′59″E﻿ / ﻿22.82750°N 86.21639°E﻿ / 22.82750; 86.21639 Country  India State Jharkhand District Purbi Singhbhum Population (2011)  • Total 316,874 Languages  • Official Hindi, Santali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 831012, 831018, 832110 Vehicle registration JH"
"Mango is a suburb of Jamshedpur city. It is situated across the Subarnarekha River and is connected via two bridges laid side by side. It is a huge and growing residential area. Once a suburb, it is now a real estate hotbed."
"Mango has the status of a 'city' according to the government though being part of the main city Jamshedpur. It is a notified area and is run by its own notified area committee, namely, Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC). The electricity services are provided by state run electricity board, JSEB. There is no household water delivery system presently but MNAC has recently entered into an agreement with JUSCO to provide tap water services to the area."
"It has two hospitals, namely, MGM Medical hospital and the newly opened Brahmananda Hospital. The MGM Hospital also has a college associated with it. Two new private engineering colleges have also been set up in the area."
"As of 2011 India census,[1] Mango had a population of 316,874. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Mango has an average literacy rate of 86.62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 91.56%, and female literacy is 81.29%. In Mango, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age.[2]"
Many buses are being operated from Jamshedpur to Mango for every 15min. Tatanagar Junction railway station is the nearest railway station at a distance of 12km.
Mango (Jamshedpur)
"Coordinates: 19°32′N 72°53′E﻿ / ﻿19.533°N 72.883°E﻿ / 19.533; 72.883 The Tansa River is a small river near Mumbai, India and is one of Mumbai's water sources via Tansa Lake. It is embanked by one of the largest masonry dams in the world, built in 1892. The embankment is nearly 2 miles long, 118 ft (36 m) high, and 30 metres thick at the base. The dam has 1.31 cubic kilometres capacity of water retention. The dam has about 38 spillway gates."
"Marth Mariam Forane Church, Arakuzha Basic information Location Arakuzha, Muvattupuzha Affiliation Syro-Malabar Catholic Church Province Syro-Malabar Catholic Diocese of Kothamangalam Leadership Major Archbishop Website arakuzhachurch.org Direction of façade West"
"Marth Mariam Forane Church is a Syro-Malabar church in Arakuzha village, 6 km from Muvattupuzha, India. The village has a large population of Nasrani Christians. These Nasrani Christians of Arakuzha have more than 1500 years of recorded history.[1] The church is currently under the jurisdiction of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Eparchy of Kothamangalam. [2] Servant of God Mar Varghese Payyappilly Palakkappilly has served as the parish priest between 1920 and 1922.[3][4]"
It was Rathappallimuthi who erected the Marth Mariam Forane Church at Aarakzha.[5] The church was pulled apart and rebuilt several times.
"Marth Mariam Syro-Malabar Catholic Forane Church, Arakuzha"
In popular culture
"Mariam Vattalil (29 January 1954 – 25 February 1995) was an Indian Roman Catholic professed religious and social worker in the Franciscan Clarist Congregation who worked among the poor within the Diocese of Indore. She assumed the religious name of ""Rani Maria"" upon becoming a nun."
Her cause of canonization commenced in 2003 and she was titled as a Servant of God.
"Vattalil was born in Kerala on 29 January 1954 as the second child to Paily and Eliswa Vattalil. Her baptism was celebrated at the Church of Saint Thomas on the following 5 February. She joined the Franciscan Claret Congregation at Kidangoor following the completion of her secondary schooling and assumed the religious name of ""Rani Maria"" upon joining and entering the novitiate. She made her final vows on 22 May 1980."
Vattalil served in Bijnor in 1975 and remained at Saint Mary's convent until being transferred to Udayanagar in 1992.
"Vattalil was murdered in a knife attack due to the hitman Samandar Singh at Nachanbore Hill in Indore on 25 February 1995 while she made her way to Indore in a bus; she had 40 major injuries besides 14 bruises and unto the last breath said: ""Jesus!"" repeatedly.[1][2][3][4] The murder was arranged because some landlords were offended due to her work among the landless poor.[1][2][4]"
"Cardinal Oswald Gracias described her work as an ""heroic example ... siding with the poor and disadvantaged"".[5] A museum in her honour exists in Ernakulam."
"The documentary entitled ""The Heart of a Murderer"" – depicting the murder and subsequent repentance of Samandar Singh – was the winner at the World Interfaith Harmony Film Festival of 2013."
"The beatification process opened on 26 September 2003 after the title Servant of God was conferred upon her and the Congregation for the Causes of Saints granted the ""nihil obstat"" ('nothing against') to the cause. The subsequent diocesan process took place in Indore from 29 June 2005 to 28 June 2007 and received C.C.S. validation in Rome on 27 November 2009.[1][6][7]"
Mariam Vattalil
Monuments
See also
"Chitharal Jain Temple Thirucharanathupalli, Chokkanthoongi Hills Chitharal Jain Temple, Tamil Nadu Basic information Location Marthandam, Kanyakumari district, Tamil Nadu Affiliation Jainism Festivals Mahavir Jayanti Date established 9th century A.D. Temple(s) 1"
"The Chitharal Jain Monuments are the ruins of a Jain training centre from the 9th century CE, on a small hill in Chitharal village, Kanyakumari district Tamil Nadu."
"The monuments are located in the small village of Chitharal, Tamil Nadu, which lies 7 km from Marthandam and 55 km from Kanyakumari."
Chitharal is historically known as Thirucharanathupalli – the abode of Jain monks belonging to the Digambara sect. It is famous for the hillock which has a cave containing rock-cut sculptures of Thirthankaras and attendant deities carved inside and outside dating back to the 9th century.[1][2] Among the rock-cut relief sculptures is a figure of the goddess Dharmadevi.[3] Jain influence in this region was due to the King Mahendravarman I (610-640).
Chitharal Jain Monuments
Importance of Paravur Lake
"Paravur Lake Paravur Kayal An evening view of Paravur Lake Location Paravur, Kerala Coordinates 8°49′19″N 76°39′32″E﻿ / ﻿8.822°N 76.659°E﻿ / 8.822; 76.659Coordinates: 8°49′19″N 76°39′32″E﻿ / ﻿8.822°N 76.659°E﻿ / 8.822; 76.659 Primary inflows Ithikkara River Catchment area 6.6246 km2 (2.5578 sq mi) Basin countries India Surface area 6.62 km²"
"Paravur Kayal is a lake in Paravur, Kerala, India.[1] Although it is small, with an area of only 6.62 km²,[2] it is the end point of the Ithikkara River and part of the system of lakes and canals that make up the Kerala Backwaters. It has been connected to Edava and Ashtamudi Kayal as part of the Trivandrum - Shoranur canal system since the late 19th century."
The lake meets the sea and in between a small stretch of road which divides them can be viewed on way.[3][4] Paravur Lake is one of the emerging tourist destinations in the district which attracts a good number of tourists.[5][6]
"The panoramic views are breath taking if you opt for a birds eye view, not from the sky but from the mountain terraces situated north and east of the place. Famous Lakesagar Xavier's resort is situated at the banks of Paravur lake. Priyadarshini boat club is another major attraction in the vicinity of Paravur lake. The mangroves along both sides of Paravur lake is also very famous[7]"
"Paravur lake is about 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) away from Paravur town. Paravur-Edava-Varkala road passes through the banks of Paravur lake. The nearest important railway station to Paravur lake is Paravur railway station. Fourteen pairs of trains stop at Paravur railway station every day. The nearest major rail head is Kollam Junction railway station, which is about 26 kilometres (16 mi) away from the lake. The nearest KSRTC bus station is Chathannoor bus station, which is 12 km away. Paravur Municipal Bus Stand and railway station are 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) away from the lake."
"Pozhikkara പൊഴിക്കര Pozhikara Neighbourhood Pozhikara regulator bridge Pozhikkara Location in Kerala, India Coordinates: 8°48′39″N 76°39′08″E﻿ / ﻿8.81083°N 76.65222°E﻿ / 8.81083; 76.65222Coordinates: 8°48′39″N 76°39′08″E﻿ / ﻿8.81083°N 76.65222°E﻿ / 8.81083; 76.65222 Country  India State Kerala District Kollam Civic body Paravur Municipality Languages  • Official Malayalam, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 691301 Telephone code 0474 Vehicle registration KL-02 Nearest city Kollam - 14 km Nearest town Paravur - 2 km Website www.paravuronline.com www.paravurmunicipality.in//"
"Pozhikara (Malayalam: പൊഴിക്കര) or Pozhikkara is the Western border town of famous Paravur municipality in the Kollam district of Kerala state in India. It is located at the South-Western tip of Kollam's coastal area. It is in the Arabian Sea coast. Pozhikara is considered as one of the heritage sites in Kerala.[1] The place is very famous for its natural beauty. So many foreigners are coming to Paravur and Pozhikara to see the rare natural beauty of estuary, backwaters and beaches"
Pozhikara is holding an important position in the history of Paravur and Kollam City. Paravur was a famous trade hub for the foreign countries. An important ancient document revealing the importance of Paravur and Pozhikara is 'Pozhikara sasanam' built in 12 th century at Pozhikara sivakshetram (later it became a devikshetram ). It was encrypted on a 'sila phalakam' in 'vattazhuthu'. Another mentioning of Paravur is in 'Unnineeli sandesam' which was written above more than 600 years.[2]
"Pozhikara was the administrative headquarters of Paravur before the independence of India. Remnants of old fort, Thaana(police station) and Anchalappees(Post office) are still remaining there.[3]"
Pozhikara is well connected with almost all the major towns. It is about 14 km from Kollam City through Kollam-Paravur coastal road. Pozhikara is just 2 km away from Paravur town. KSRTC is running daily Fast Passenger bus services in Pozhikara-Ernakulam and Pozhikara-Poovar route. Paravur Municipal bus stand is about 4 km away from Meenad.
Importance of Nedungolam
"Nedungolam നെടുങ്ങോലം Nedumgolam Neighbourhood Entrance of Taluk Hospital, Paravur, Kollam Nedungolam Location in Kerala, India Coordinates: 8°50′2″N 76°40′56″E﻿ / ﻿8.83389°N 76.68222°E﻿ / 8.83389; 76.68222Coordinates: 8°50′2″N 76°40′56″E﻿ / ﻿8.83389°N 76.68222°E﻿ / 8.83389; 76.68222 Country  India State Kerala District Kollam Civic body Paravur Municipality Government  • Type Municipal council  • Body Paravur Municipality Languages  • Official Malayalam, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 691334 Telephone code 0474 Vehicle registration KL-02 Nearest city Kollam - 18 km Nearest town Paravur - 3 km Website www.paravuronline.com www.paravurmunicipality.in//"
"Nedungolam (Malayalam: നെടുങ്ങോലം) or Nedumgolam is the Northern border town of Paravur municipality in the Kollam district of Kerala state, India. Nedungolam is very near to the world famous-wetland in Kollam district, Polachira, which is a favorite destination for migratory birds.[1] A census conducted on 2003 reveals that over 26,000 birds belonging to 37 species are visiting or living in the Polachira wetlands.[2]"
"Nedungolam is a town with two major junctions - Hospital Junction and Post Office Junction.[3] It is one of the important attractions of blessed estuary land, Paravur. Most of the resorts in Paravur are very near to Nedungolam. Beautiful beaches of Paravur are just 5 km away from Nedungolam. Proximity to the world-famous Kerala wetland, Polachira is another blessing of Nedungolam. In addition to that, one of the heritage sites of Kerala, Pozhikkara is just 5 km from Nedungolam.[4] Rama Rao Memorial Govt. Taluk Hospital, Paravur - The one and only Taluk Hospital in Chathannoor constituency is in Nedungolam. Paravur Sub-Registrar Office, Padmanabha Rao public library, B.R Hospital - another famous hospital in Paravur etc. - are the other important institutions in Nedungolam. Many Hindu temples, Nedungolam Service Co-operative Bank, Nedungolam Post-office[5] and Nedungolam Govt. Higher Secondary School are also situated in the locality of Nedungolam. Resorts in Nedungolam area include:"
"Aquasserenne Resort, Paravur Fragrant Nature Hotels & Resorts Pvt Ltd., Paravur[6] The Tranquil Palms Resort, Paravur"
Nedungolam is located at the borders of Paravur Municipality and is in Paravur-Chathannoor road. Nedungolam is well connected with almost all the major towns. It is about 18 km from Kollam City and 3 km from Paravur town. Private and KSRTC bus services connect Nedungolam with various towns in Kerala. Paravur Municipal Bus Stand is 4 km away from Nedungolam.
Nedungolam
Details of annual passenger earnings from Paravur railway station
Service
Passenger Trains
"Paravur Railway Station is an 'Adarsh Railway Station'.[8] However, stoppage of Ernad Express, Netravati Express, Amritha Express trains have been a long-standing demand of Paravur people. Two more Kollam-Kanyakumari MEMU services and a Punalur-Kanyakumari Passenger are expected to start service soon with halts at Paravur.[9]"
"Paravur railway station (Code:PVU) is a railway station in the Indian municipal town of Paravur in Kollam district, Kerala.[1] Paravur Railway Station falls under the Thiruvananthapuram railway division of the Southern Railway Zone of Indian Railways. It is a 'D-Class' railway station coming under the Southern Railway Zone."
"Paravur is connected to various cities in India like Kollam, Trivandrum, Kochi, Calicut, Palakkad, Thrissur, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Madurai, Kanyakumari, Mangalore, Pune, Salem, Coimbatore, Trichy and Tirunelveli through Indian Railways.[3] Proximity of Paravur railway station to the core Paravur town and Paravur Municipal Bus Stand is making it as one of the important public transport hubs in the district and the state."
"The Madras-Quilon line was extended to the capital of the Princely State of Travancore. Paravur Railway Station was opened on 4 January 1918 along with the inauguration of Quilon - Trivandrum Central Metre Gauge Line. During that time, Paravur was the most important railway station between Kollam and Trivandrum with maximum number of halts of trains. Important trains like Chennai Mail had halt at Paravur then.[4]"
"During 2012-2013, Southern Railway has given halt for 3 pairs of trains at Paravur railway station. That helped to give a 40% increase in revenue of the station.[7]"
Express Trains
Some of the major trains having halt at the station.
Estuary in Paravur Thekkumbhagam
Places of interest near Thekkumbhagam
"Thekkumbhagam തെക്കുംഭാഗം Thekkumbhagom Neighbourhood From Top:Boating at Paravur Lake, Sunset at Thekkumbhagam beach, Thekkumbhagam Estuary, Paravur Lake at Thekkumbhagam, Lakesagar Xavier's resort in Thekkumbhagam Thekkumbhagam Location in Kerala, India Coordinates: 8°47′53″N 76°40′01″E﻿ / ﻿8.798°N 76.667°E﻿ / 8.798; 76.667Coordinates: 8°47′53″N 76°40′01″E﻿ / ﻿8.798°N 76.667°E﻿ / 8.798; 76.667 Country  India State Kerala District Kollam Civic body Paravur Municipality Languages  • Official Malayalam, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 691319 Telephone code 0474 Vehicle registration KL-02 Nearest city Kollam - 14 km Nearest town Paravur - 4 km Website www.paravuronline.com www.paravurmunicipality.in//"
"Thekkumbhagam (Malayalam: തെക്കുംഭാഗം/പരവൂര്‍ തെക്കുംഭാഗം) or Thekkumbhagom is the southern border town of Paravur municipality in the Kollam district of Kerala, India. It is located at the Southern tip of Kollam's coastal area. It is in the Arabian Sea coast.[1] Thekkumbhagam-Kappil estuary point in the Kollam-Thiruvananthapuram coastal border is one of the emerging tourism spots in the state.[2] On 1936, during formation, Thekkumbhagam was one of the 9 territories of Paravur Panchayath.[3] The place is very famous for its natural beauty. Thekkumbhagam estuary is one among the twin estuary points in Paravur. The other one is Pozhikara estuary."
"Paravur landmass' 3 sides are surrounded by water bodies - Paravur Lake, Nadayara Lake and Arabian Sea. Both north and south tips of Paravur town is having peninsula and estuary. Thekkumbhagam is at south of Paravur. Thekkumbhagam estuary is the most crowd-pulling estuary in the state. It is located at the borders of Kollam-Thiruvananthapuram districts. A stunning beach in this location attracts a huge crowd every day.[4][5] Beauty of this estuary can be enjoyed by travelling through Paravur-Kappil-Varkala road.[6][7]"
Paravur - The temple town of Kollam[8] Thekkumbhagam-Kappil beach and estuary Priyadarshini Boat Club Paravur Lake Pozhikara estuary Polachira wetlands Puthenkulam Elephant Village[9]
2016 fire
Puttingal Temple പരവൂര്‍ പുറ്റിങ്ങല്‍ ദേവീക്ഷേത്രം Puttingal temple festival Puttingal Temple പരവൂര്‍ പുറ്റിങ്ങല്‍ ദേവീക്ഷേത്രം Location in Kerala Name Proper name Paravur Puttingal Devi Temple Geography Coordinates 8°48′45.43″N 76°39′51.97″E﻿ / ﻿8.8126194°N 76.6644361°E﻿ / 8.8126194; 76.6644361Coordinates: 8°48′45.43″N 76°39′51.97″E﻿ / ﻿8.8126194°N 76.6644361°E﻿ / 8.8126194; 76.6644361 Country India State Kerala District Kollam Location Paravur Culture Primary deity Goddess Puttingal
"Puttingal Temple was a Hindu temple in the coastal town of Paravur, India. The temple was founded after the presence of the goddess was experienced on an ant hill with Puttu being the Malayalam word for ant Hill.[1]"
The main festival is celebrated on the day of Bharani star in Meenam. Fireworks and other events associated with the festival take place along with other cultural events with various poojas performed.
"On 10 April, 2016, 114 people were killed due to a fireworks mishap at this temple, while over 350 other people were injured.[2] A cracker fell on a shed where the fireworks were stored, setting off an explosion.[3] Permission was not given to the temple by the authorities for the fireworks display and a case was registered."
Other suburban railway stations
"Kollam Junction railway station (station code: QLN) is a junction station situated in the city of Kollam in Kerala, India. It is the second largest railway station in Kerala in terms of area, after Shoranur Junction, and is one of the oldest railway stations in Kerala. India's second longest railway platform is situated at Kollam railway station.[2][3][4]"
"Kollam was the fifth city in Kerala to be connected to the nascent Indian Railway. The idea of a rail link from Tirunelveli to Kollam, then the trading capital of the Travancore Kingdom was first conceived in 1873. The line was sanctioned by the Madras Presidency in 1899 and a survey completed in 1900. The railway line was built jointly by South Indian railway, Travancore state and the Madras Presidency. Kollam's (formerly Quilon) railway station was built in 1904 by Sree Moolam Tirunal Rama Varma, Maharaja of Travancore. It was the ruler’s desire to create a rail link between Kollam, the then commercial capital of his State and Madras.[5] The meter gauge line from Kollam to Punalur was inaugurated on 1 June 1904. The Kollam-Sengottai railway line was inaugurated on 26 November 1904. The meter gauge line was later extended to Chala at Trivandrum via Paravur and Varkala and inaugurated on 4 January 1918.[6] The meter gauge railway line from Kollam was extended to Ernakulam via Kottayam on 6 January 1958. The meter gauge lines between Kollam and Ernakulam were converted to broad gauge in 1975 and inaugurated on 13 September 1976. The broad gauge conversion between the Punalur and Kollam sections was inaugurated on 12 May 2010."
Kollam Junction railway station
How to reach
Karakal (Territories)
Other festivals
Padanilam Sivarathri
Temple Specialities
"Nooranad Padanilam Parabrahma Temple Nooranad Padanilam Parabrahma Temple Location in Kerala Name Proper name Padanilam Parabrahma Temple Devanagari पड़निलम परब्रह्म मंदिर Tamil படநிலம் பரப்ரம்மா டெம்ப்ளே Malayalam പടനിലം പരബ്രഹ്മ ക്ഷേത്രം Geography Coordinates 9°11′24″N 76°37′55″E﻿ / ﻿9.190°N 76.632°E﻿ / 9.190; 76.632Coordinates: 9°11′24″N 76°37′55″E﻿ / ﻿9.190°N 76.632°E﻿ / 9.190; 76.632 Country India State Kerala District Alappuzha Location Padanilam, Nooranad Culture Primary deity Parabrahma Important festivals Mahashivarathri vrischika mahotsavam Irupathiyettamonam Mandala chirappu para ezhunnallath History and governance Website www.padanilamtemple.org"
"Padanilam Parabrahma Temple (പടനിലം പരബ്രഹ്മ ക്ഷേത്രം ) is situated at Padanilam in Alappuzha district of Kerala, India. It is one of the major temples in erstwhile Travancore state. The temple is situated 17 km east of Kayamkulam and 7 km south west of Pandalam. The temple is dedicated to Lord Parabrahma ,also known as omkaram."
"[1] Padanilam Temple is believed to be swayambhu. Its actual history and the facts about how worship started there are unknown. Padanilam has been the administrative centre of Nooranad and it has the history of intense conflict between various karakal (territories) around the temple. This was for gaining control over the temple administration and thereby controlling the entire village. Due to this pada (battle/conflict), the place is said to have got its name. It is believed that the army troops of Kayamkulam Kingdom was camped near the temple for protecting the kingdom from the attack of neighbouring kings. During this period, the village had some chieftains and their supporters. They include Noorukodi Unnithans, Kadackal Karuppans, Vettathasaans and Velladickal Karuppans. Kayamkulam Raja withdrawed his troop about four centuries ago. This initiated tensions between the chieftains for control of the village. Thus they divided into south and north, starting battle. The south side consisted of Noorukodi Karuppans and Kadackal Karuppans. The other side had Vettathasans and Velladickal Karuppans with them. Twenty-two karakal supported their respective sides. During the battle, many soldiers of both the sides died in large numbers. They were buried in the chira near the temple. Even from very earliest of times, this temple was a blessing for the people in the surrounding areas. It is also believed that the battle was between Marthanda varma King on one side and Kayamkulam King on the other. The twenty-two karakals of Nooranad took side with the two kings. The common people started worrying about the devastation of the war and approached the Pazhoor Panamana Thampuran to find a solution to end the war. He tried to intervene but the parties were not in a position to stop. He made a tent in the eastern part of the temple and started fasting unto death. But that also did not deter the warring parties. But when he was on the verge of death due to the fast, they fearing the Brahmanasaapam, agreed to stop war. They demarcated the boundary in the north-south direction and stopped the war in the name of Parabrahma, the presiding deity of the temple."
"Sivarathri[2] is the main festival in the temple. Giant effigies of bulls, known locally as kettukala,are pulled to the temple from 15 territories (kara) of the temple. Some of these have a height of more than 50 feet. Its one of the largest festivals of its kind in Kerala.There are lots of people in Nooranad area, who are involved in the making of these colossal effigies. There is a proposal in front of the Kerala Government to recognize this village as the Nandikesha Paithruka Gramam due to its cultural importance. Thousands come to the temple on Sivarathri day to see the kaavadiyattam for Lord Subrahmanyan in the morning. Kaavady from all parts of the area come separately and meet at the temple.kettulsavam, which is the most spectacular sight of the festival is held at evening. Kettulsavam from the distinct areas of the village come to the temple at around 4 p.m. The rituals and programmes only end at midnight."
The temple has no protective walls or roofs The priests are not necessarily brahmins. The temple neither opens nor closes.The rituals like Nada thurappu(opening of the temple in the dawn) and Nada adakkal(closing of the temple during night) is not there in this temple. Non-Hindus are permitted to enter the temple and can even take part in all the celebrations related to temple including Shivarathri kettukazhcha.Religious unity is a trademark of Padanilam and it upholds the real culture of India. Bhasma(holy ash) is given to devotees instead of Sandalwood paste. There is no proper idol in the temple.Only a stone image of OM and is placed under natural roof formed by tree leaves. Devotees can stay in the temple compound for the first 12 days of the month vrischikam for doing bhajan for Lord Parabrahman.For this purpose special huts are made in temple premise and devotees lead a holy life these days.The number of huts are increasing year by year. The temple is one of the Idathaavalam of Sabarimala Dharma Sastha Temple.The temple provides resting place for Ayyappa devotees coming from various places.Lots of Pamba special service buses are passing through Padanilam.Temple authority is providing dried ginger coffee and light food for Sabarimala devotees.
Padanilam Parabrahma Temple temple has mainly 15 karakal (Territories). They are
Nedukulanjimuri Palamel Thathamunna Edappon Naduvilemuri Muthukattukara Ulavukkad Erumakuzhy Puthupallikunnam Kudassanad Pulimel Edakkunnam Pattoor Pazhanjikkonam Kidangayam
"Vrischika mahotsavam, which is celebrated during the first 12 days of the malayalam month of vrischikam. The ending day of the festival is called panthrand vilakk. Each year during vrischika mahotsavam,temple administration gives the Parabrahma Chaithanya Award to notable personalities for their contributions in their respective fields.[4] Irupathiyettamonam Mandala Chirappu Sapthaha yajnam etc."
"There are both private and KSRTC buses from the towns of Kayamkulam and Pandalam. There are buses from Pandalam, Kayamkulam, Pathanamthitta, Konni, Mavelikkara, Oachira, Karunagapally, etc. passing through Padanilam. Padanilam is situated on the Kayamkulam-Edappon-Pandalam-Pathanamthitta bus route."
Padanilam Parabrahma Temple
Literary Works
Marriage
"Aswathy Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi Native name അശ്വതി തിരുനാൾ ഗൗരി ലക്ഷ്മിഭായി Born Gowri Lakshmi Bayi Travancore Pen name Gauri Lakshmi Bai Occupation Writer Language Malayalam Nationality India Ethnicity Malayali Citizenship Indian Education Graduate in Economics Period 1994- current Notable works The Dawn(1994), Kerala Temple Architecture: Some Notable Features (1997), Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple(1998), Thulsi Garland(1998), The Mighty Indian Experience(2002), Budhadarśanaṃ: lēkhanaṅṅaḷ(2007), Glimpses of Kerala Culture(2011), Rudrakshamala(2014) etc. Spouse Late. Sri Vishakham Nal Sukumaran Raja Raja Varma of Paliyakkara West Palace, Thiruvalla(m.1963-2005) Children Prince Pooruruttathi Thirunal Marthanda Varma, Prince Avittom Thirunal Adithya Varma and Princess Bharani Thirunal Lekha Parvathi Bayi (adopted in 1994) Relatives Lt. Col. G. V. Raja (father), Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi (mother), Maharajah Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma (uncle), Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma (uncle), Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma (brother)"
Aswathy Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi (born 1945) of the former Travancore Royal Family is a noted Indo-Anglian writer from Kerala. She has ten books to her credit.[1]
"Aswathy Thirunal is the niece of the last King of Travancore, Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma and Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma.[2]"
"Aswathy Thirunal was born as the third child of Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi of Travancore Royal Family and Lt. Col G. V. Raja in July 4, 1945. Her siblings are Avittom Thirunal Rama Varma(1938-1944), Pooyam Thirunal Gowri Parvati Bayi (1941) and Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma(1949).[3][4] She was educated at home by Anglo-Indian tutors along with her siblings. After finishing school, she joined Women's College Thiruvananthapuram to pursue a Degree in Economics and graduated from there in 1966.[5]"
"At the age of 18 in 1963, Aswathy Thirunal married 26-year-old Vishakham Nal Sukumaran Raja Raja Varma, a member of the Paliyakkara West Palace of Thiruvalla. The couple had two sons and an adopted daughter. Raja Raja Varma died on 30 December 2005 from injuries received in a car accident."
"Aswathi Thirunal has written several books on subjects such as Travancore temples and Kerala temple architecture as well as two collections of English poems, numerous articles in newspapers, and books on the culture and heritage of India — more than 10 books in total. Some of her important works include: The Dawn (1994), Kerala Temple Architecture: Some Notable Features (1997), Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple (1998), Thulsi Garland (1998), The Mighty Indian Experience (2002), Budhadarśanaṃ: lēkhanaṅṅaḷ (2007), Glimpses of Kerala Culture (2011) and Rudrakshamala (2014). According to critics, the book Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple published in 1998, considered a comprehensive work on the ancient temple, is extremely popular and has run into several editions. The book was translated into Malayalam by K. Shankaran Nambuthiri and K. Jayakumar.[6]"
English Translation
Wonderful English translations of Nalayira Divya Prabandham is available[7]
"The Nalayira Divya Prabandham (Tamil: நாலாயிரத் திவ்வியப் பிரபந்தம், nālāyira tivviya pirapantam) is a collection of 4,000 Tamil verses (Naalayiram in Tamil means 'four thousand') composed [1] by the 12 Alvars, and was compiled in its present form by Nathamuni during the 9th – 10th centuries. The work, an important liturgical compilation of the Tamil Alvar Bhaktas, marks the beginning of the canonization of 12 Vaishnava poet saints, and these hymns are still sung extensively today. The works were lost before they were collected and organized in the form of an anthology by Nathamuni."
"The Divya Prabandham sings the praise of Narayana (or Vishnu) and his many forms. The Alvars sang these songs at various sacred shrines known as the Divya Desams. The Tamil Vaishnavites are also known as Ubhaya Vedanti (those that follow both Vedas, i.e., the Sanskrit Rigveda, Yajurveda, Samaveda and Atharvaveda, as well as the Tamil-language Tiruvaymoli, a work which many South Indian devotees regard as the Tamil Veda).[2] In many temples — Srirangam, for example — the chanting of the Divya Prabhandham forms a major part of the daily service."
"Prominent among its 4,000 verses are the over 1,100 verses known as the Tiruvaymoli or Thiruvaaymozhi (""words of the sacred mouth""), composed by Nammalvar (Kaari Maaran, Sadagopan of Alwarthirunagari Temple) and which forms the third portion of the overall Divya Prabandham. Nammalvar self-identifies as a lovelorn gopi pining for Krishna. [2]"
"The collection, once thought to have been lost, was organized in the form of an anthology by Nathamuni.[3]"
Details of Pasurams
"The following table shows the details of the 4,000 pasurams (hymns).[6]"
Naalayira Divya Prabhandham
"Barlamunda is a tribal village in Koraput district, Orissa, India. It has no electricity, running water or road access, despite being promised rudimentary facilities (beginning with a road) under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.[1]"
Barlamunda
Lakshmipur is a village in Koraput district in the Indian state of Orissa.[1][2]
Tourism
"Padua Town is an Indian town located on the highway route from Araku, Andhra Pradesh to Jeypore, Odisha. It is a small town located on the eastern edge of the reservoir created by Jalaput Dam."
Padua also lies on the train route of Kirandul to Vishakhapatnam passenger train that runs between the Indian states of Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh.[1] Padua railway station is located 4 km north of the town.
"Padua has a population of 1,368 persons which consists of 675 males and 693 females as per the latest census.[2]"
Padua is a scenic location with some tourist interest due to the Jolaput lake nestled in adjoining hills.
"Shimiliguda village Country  India State Odisha Elevation 996 m (3,268 ft) Languages  • Official odiya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Shimiliguda is a village in machhakunda in koraaput of odishaa , India.There is a railway station in this village in Kothavalasa-Kirandul line under Waltair division of East Coast Railway, Indian Railways and located at an altitude of 996 meters above mean sea level."
"Sunki village Sunki Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 18°30′02″N 83°02′54″E﻿ / ﻿18.500447°N 83.048229°E﻿ / 18.500447; 83.048229Coordinates: 18°30′02″N 83°02′54″E﻿ / ﻿18.500447°N 83.048229°E﻿ / 18.500447; 83.048229 Country  India State Odisha District Koraput Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Sunki is a village in the Koraput district of the Indian state of Odisha.[1]
"It is located at the border between Odisha's Koraput district and Vijayanagaram district, Andhra Pradesh and on the National Highway 43."
Education
Chiladangari (ଚିଲଡଙ୍ଗରି) is a village of Koksara Block in Dharmagarh sub-division [1] in Kalahandi District in Odisha State. This village comes under Phupagaon panchayat of Kokasara Tehsil in Kalahandi District.It also come under kasibahal RI circle.Chiladangari is 7 km distance from Koksara and 60 km distance from its District Main City Bhawanipatna. And 333 km distance from its State Main City Bhubaneswar.
"According to census 2001, total population of Chiladangari(ଚିଲଡଙ୍ଗରି) was 1,000."
Chiladangari
"Karanjkot is a village in Golamunda block of Kalahandi district, Odisha state, India. It is situated in a place covered with forest and mountains."
Karanjkot
"Sirjapali Village Sirjapali Show map of Odisha Sirjapali Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°19′N 83°23′E﻿ / ﻿20.32°N 83.38°E﻿ / 20.32; 83.38Coordinates: 20°19′N 83°23′E﻿ / ﻿20.32°N 83.38°E﻿ / 20.32; 83.38 Country  India State Odisha District Kalahandi Population (2001)  • Total 2,500 Languages  • Official Oriya Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD Website odisha.gov.in"
Sirjapali is a village of the Kesinga in Kalahandi district of Indian state Odisha.
The famous temple of lord Shiva Dhabaleswar Peeth is 3 km from Sirjapali. The Tel river flows just two kilometers from the village.
summer view
Sirjapali
Dadpur is a village near Bhawanipatna in Kalahandi district of Orissa state of India.[1]
Hanumanpur village Country  India State Odisha District Angul Languages  • Official Odia Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration OD-19/OD-35 Website odisha.gov.in
"Hanumanpur is a village in Angul district, Kariha block, Odisha, India.[1]"
"Kanteikulia Kanteikulia Village and panchayat Kanteikulia Show map of Odisha Kanteikulia Show map of India Location in Odisha, India Coordinates: 20°58′39″N 84°45′16″E﻿ / ﻿20.97750°N 84.75444°E﻿ / 20.97750; 84.75444Coordinates: 20°58′39″N 84°45′16″E﻿ / ﻿20.97750°N 84.75444°E﻿ / 20.97750; 84.75444 Country  India State Odisha District Angul Tehsil Kishorenagar Languages  • Official Odia Time zone IST (UTC5:30) Vehicle registration OD-35 (before OD-19/OR-19)"
"Kanteikulia is a small village and panchayat in Angul district, Odisha, India.[1] The Khandanal River flows near the village. It is surrounded by sal forest. It is reached via National Highway 42 and about 6 kilometres (3.7 mi) north of Boinda, near the edges of the Bamur Forest Range.[2] The panchayat covers an area of 591 acres. Kanteikulia contains a notable Hindu temple, dedicated to Shiva. Some people write this place as ``Kanteikolia.''[3]"
"An upper primary school, a post office and an ayurvedic dispensary situated there."
"Laxminarayan College, Jharsuguda, also called LN College, is a full-fledged aided College of the Government of Odisha located in Jharsuguda town. It has thousands of students and hundred of employees. It imparts teaching in Arts, Science and Commerce both in + 2 and + 3 stage with Honours teaching facilities.The Collegeis one of the oldest college in western Odisha being established in August, 1969. Laxminarayan College is a fully aided educational institution of the government of Odisha, having many UGC- scale teachers . The College was credited with a ""B"" grade by NAAC in 2011/12."
"Although the main building of the college is housed in an earstwhile Hostel of the Engineering School of Jharsuguda, later on many new infrastructures along with a sports complex financed by the UGC has been added . The College presently boast of a modern computer Laboratory with 60 computers with LAN connections, a well equipped modern language laboratory and other facility . The present student strength of the college is about 2000.[1][2][3][4]"
Kingfisher Xpress was a new Door-to-Door cargo delivery service from Kingfisher Airlines. Kingfisher Xpress Same Day service was India's first and only same day delivery by air service.[1]
"Service offered a pick up facility in the 8 main metropolitan cities of India namely Mumbai, New Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Cochin and Kolkata with guaranteed[2] same day delivery in up to 22 cities[3] of India namely Ahmedabad, Bagdogra, Bangalore, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi, Kochi, Goa, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Patna, Raipur, Ranchi, Lucknow, Nagpur, Pune, Srinagar and Tiruvanathapuram.[4]"
Kolkata - Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport (pick up facility) Siliguri - Bagdogra Airport
Economy
"Bahula বহুলা Town Bahula Location in West Bengal, India Coordinates: 23°39′27″N 87°11′46″E﻿ / ﻿23.657419°N 87.195974°E﻿ / 23.657419; 87.195974Coordinates: 23°39′27″N 87°11′46″E﻿ / ﻿23.657419°N 87.195974°E﻿ / 23.657419; 87.195974 Country  India State West Bengal District Barddhaman Population (2001)  • Total 16,264 Languages  • Official Bengali, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 713322 Telephone code 91 341 2666 Lok Sabha constituency Asansol Vidhan Sabha constituency Pandaveswar Website bardhaman.gov.in"
"Bahula is a census town under Andal police station[1] in Durgapur subdivision of Barddhaman district in the state of West Bengal, India."
Bahula is located at 23°39′27″N 87°11′46″E﻿ / ﻿23.657419°N 87.195974°E﻿ / 23.657419; 87.195974.
The Asansol-Durgapur region is composed of undulating latterite soil. This area lies between two mighty rivers – the Damodar and the Ajay. They flow almost parallel to each other in the region – the average distance between the two rivers is around 30 km. For ages the area was heavily forested and infested with plunderers and marauders. The discovery of coal led to industrialisation of the area and most of the forests have been cleared.[2]
"As of 2001 India census,[3] Bahula had a population of 16,264. Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%. Bahula has an average literacy rate of 58%, lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 64% of the males and 36% of females literate. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
"This is a coal mining area. Bahula is part of Kenda area of Eastern Coalfields Limited, a subsidiary of Coal India Limited. The area has been facing the problem of land subsidence.[4] There are some engineering workshops at Bahula.[5]"
Bahula has three primary and one higher secondary schools.[6]
"Government Autonomous College Bhawanipatna ""ସରକାରୀ ସ୍ୱୟଂଶାସିତ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ଭବାନୀପାଟଣା"" Type Education Established 1960 (college) Students Undergraduate and Post graduate Location Bhawanipatna, Odisha, India Campus Urban Affiliations UGC Website http://www.gacbhawanipatna.org/"
"Government Autonomous College Bhawanipatna(Odia: ସରକାରୀ ସ୍ୱୟଂଶାସିତ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ଭବାନୀପାଟଣା)is an Autonomous College located in Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi district, Odisha, India.[1]"
"This Institute was started as Kalahandi Science College on18th July 1960 and continued as a private institution till 30.11.1961. Then it was taken over by the Government of Odisha on 1.12.1961 and renamed as Govt. Science College, Bhawanipatna. In 2002 it was recognized as a centre of excellence for higher education and teaching and conferred with autonomous status by UGC.[2]"
"Government Autonomous College, Bhawanipatna"
References
"D.A.V. College, Koraput ""ଡି.ଏ.ଭି. ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, କୋରାପୁଟ"" Type Co-Aid Established 1968 Academic affiliation Berhampur University Location Koraput, Odisha, India"
"D.A.V. College(Odia: ଡି.ଏ.ଭି. ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, କୋରାପୁଟ), Koraput,[1] is a State Government-run degree college affiliated to the Berhampur University. It is situated in Landiguda 6 km from Koraput Bus-stop. With a beautiful surrounding of greenery near the river Kolab. It offers graduate courses in Arts, Commerce and Science stream. It also offers Master courses for Arts stream in two subjects that is Oriya and Education. Its science stream block is located near the bank of the river Kolab."
"The College was established in 1968 by the Dayanand Anglo-Vedic College Management Committee in collaboration with the Education Development Society of Koraput. It was taken over by the Government of Orissa in 1982, expanded to offer bachelor's and master's degrees."
"Nilakantheswar Mahavidyalaya ନୀଳକଣ୍ଠେଶ୍ଵର ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ବଲଣ୍ଡା, ତାଳଚେର Type Non Govt. College Established 1989 Principal Sri Sarat Kumar Nayak M.A., M.Phil Students 500+ Undergraduates BSc, BA Location Talcher, Odisha, India 20°55′22″N 85°09′13″E﻿ / ﻿20.922764°N 85.153661°E﻿ / 20.922764; 85.153661Coordinates: 20°55′22″N 85°09′13″E﻿ / ﻿20.922764°N 85.153661°E﻿ / 20.922764; 85.153661 Campus Urban South Balanda Affiliations UGC, NAAC, Utkal University"
"Nilakantheswar Mahavidyalaya(NM)(Odia: ନୀଳକଣ୍ଠେଶ୍ଵର ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ,ବଲଣ୍ଡା,ତାଳଚେର)is in the South Balanda area of Talcher, Odisha, India. It was established in 1992. It was started as a tutorial college with the name of Nilakatheswar Vidyapeeth (+2) in 1987 to fulfill the dreams of higher education for the children of Mahanadi Coalfields Limited employees as well as local people. In 1989 it was recognized by the government of Odisha and affiliated to the Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha.[1][2]"
Nilakantheswar Mahavidyalaya
Foundation
"Vikram Dev Autonomous College, Jeypore ବିକ୍ରମଦେବ ସ୍ୱୟଂଶାସିତ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ଜୟପୁର Type Education and Research Institution Established 1947 Academic staff 51 Location Jeypore, Odisha, India Campus Urban, 5 acres Website www.vikramdebcollege.org"
"Vikram Dev College, Jeypore(Odia: ବିକ୍ରମଦେବ ସ୍ୱୟଂଶାସିତ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ଜୟପୁର)is a graduation college in India, located in the eastern state of Odisha."
"As a part of welfare activities of the government, in July 1947 the government started this institution of higher education at Jeypore with all the help and support of the benevolent king, who readily provided the accommodation for this noble cause with a free hand. The college started at the present P G Block was known as 'Jeypore College' from 1 July 1947. As a tribute to the philanthropist king, Rajarshi Vikram Deb Verma, the college was renamed to 'VIKRAM DEB COLLEGE' in 1961. The college was also upgraded to a FIRST GRADE college from 1961 and undergraduate courses were started. Honours teaching provisions were made in 1968–73 and Post Graduate courses were started from 1979. The college was declared a LEAD COLLEGE in 1991–92. The institution grew in respect of student strength, teaching facilities and quality of education from year to year providing valuable service to a large population of the area deprived of provision of higher education otherwise. The college never looked back from its inception and grew to become a premiere institution of higher education in the whole of the state today for any information relating to news, events etc."
"Vikram Dev College, Jeypore"
"Subalaya College is an aided junior college located at Subalaya in Birmaharajpur subdivision, Subarnapur district, Odisha, India. It is a 10+2 Arts college and located on the bank of river Mahanadi."
Overview
"Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and Technology, Bhubaneswar ""କେନ୍ଦ୍ରୀୟ ପ୍ଲାଷ୍ଟିକ ଇଞ୍ଜିନିୟରିଂ ଓ ଟେକ୍ନୋଲୋଜି ପ୍ରତିଷ୍ଠାନ(ଭୁବନେଶ୍ଵର)"" Other name ସିପେଟ୍, ଭୁବନେଶ୍ଵର Established 1968 Director S. N. Yadav Academic staff 178 Location Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India 20°20′40″N 85°48′55″E﻿ / ﻿20.344466°N 85.815325°E﻿ / 20.344466; 85.815325Coordinates: 20°20′40″N 85°48′55″E﻿ / ﻿20.344466°N 85.815325°E﻿ / 20.344466; 85.815325 Affiliations BPUT AICTE CIPET Website cipet.gov.in"
"Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology, Bhubaneshwar (CIPET)(Odia: ପ୍ଲାଷ୍ଟିକ୍ ଇଞ୍ଜିନିୟରିଂ ଓ ଟେକ୍ନୋଲୋଜି ପ୍ରତିଷ୍ଠାନ(ଭୁବନେଶ୍ଵର))is one the Central Governmental Research Institution of India, which was established in the year of 1968 and is one of 15 Institute under Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (India). The Institute offers Doctoral Programme in Polymer Science, Material Science and Plastics Engineering, Masters, Bachelor's degree Programs in affiliation with Biju Patnaik University of Technology, Rourkela, accredited by All India Council of Technical Education.[1]"
"Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology is an autonomous institute under the department of chemicals and petrochemicals, ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, Government of India. CIPET offers B.Tech, M.Tech and Ph.D program, as well as various short term courses."
"Padmanava College of Engineering Type Private College Established 1999 Director Mr. D. R. Patnaik[1] Location Rourkela, Odisha, India Campus Sector 04, Rourkela Affiliations BPUT AICTE Website www.pcerkl.ac.in"
"Padmanava College of Engineering (PCE), Rourkela was established in academic year 1999-2000 to impart degree courses in engineering under the Padmanva Educational Trust, Bhubaneswar. The prime objective of the trust has been the promotion of facilities of technical education for people of west Odisha and around."
The institute is affiliated to Biju Patnaik University of Technology (BPUT) with ISO 9001:2000 certification.[2]
"The institute is now functioning in the campus of sector 4, Rourkela. The new campus of the college is under construction near sector 9."
"Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital, Bhubaneswar ""ହାଇ-ଟେକ ଭେଷଜ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ, ଭୁବନେଶ୍ୱର"" Official Seal of HMCH Type Private Medical College Established 2005 Undergraduates 100 per year Location Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India 20°18′00″N 85°52′00″E﻿ / ﻿20.299996°N 85.866544°E﻿ / 20.299996; 85.866544Coordinates: 20°18′00″N 85°52′00″E﻿ / ﻿20.299996°N 85.866544°E﻿ / 20.299996; 85.866544 Campus Urban 42 acres (170,000 m2) Affiliations Medical Council of India Website HMCH, Bhubaneswar"
"Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital (HMCH)(Odia: ହାଇ-ଟେକ ଭେଷଜ ମହାବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ ଭୁବନେଶ୍ୱର)is a private, nonprofit, self-financing medical institution based in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital is functioning from 2005 under Utkal University affiliation and recognized by Medical Council Of India. It is Odisha's first private medical college.[1][2] It has 400 Teaching beds with state of the art operation theatres along with 20 intensive care beds with 24hrs with high-tech trauma care facility. College offers MBBS and BDS course for duration 5 years."
"It is located at Pandara , Rasulgarh. One has to take right turn from Hi-tech Square while going from Rasulgarh Square towards Cuttack just before kuakhai Bridge.From there on it is 2km towards the medical college and hospital."
"Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital, Bhubaneswar"
Fire incident
Hospital
Medical college
"Institute of Medical Sciences and Sum Hospital ""ଭେଷଜ ଶିକ୍ଷା ଅନୁଷ୍ଠାନ ଏବଂ ସମ୍ ହସ୍ପିଟାଲ"" Motto Imparting Medical Education, both, at Under graduate and Post graduation level. Type Private medical college Established 2007 Dean Dr. D. K. Roy Students 750 each year Including Interns. Postgraduates Available in Clinical fields. Location Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India Campus Urban Affiliations Siksha O Anusandhan University, MCI Website www.soauniversity.ac.in/ims-sum-hospital"
"The Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS) and Sum Hospital(Odia: ଭେଷଜ ଶିକ୍ଷା ଅନୁଷ୍ଠାନ ଏବଂ ସମ୍ ହସ୍ପିଟାଲ) is the medical school of the Siksha O Anusandhan University situated in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. This institute gained permission in 2007 from Medical Council of India to start the MBBS courses in medical stream."
"It provides undergraduate courses in medicine and dentistry, and postgraduate courses in non-clinical departments. It has begun providing post graduation in clinical subjects like surgery and anesthesia."
"It provides speciality services including cardiology, neurology, nephrology, plastic surgery and neo-natalogy."
"The IMS (the college wing) has six lecture theatres with e-teaching facilities. It has its own library with internet cafe, and the campus is supported by full-time high-speed wi-fi."
"The hospital has 1200 beds. It has an intensive care unit, the largest such unit in Odisha, and a special N-ICU for neonates. It has air-conditioned and normal private cabins for patients. The hospital has operation theatres equipped with the most advanced equipments and machines. It also provides all types of speciality services at affordable price. In october 2016 the hospital caught fire due to short circuit in ICU and led to many casualties."
"A fire at the hospital occurred in the evening of 17 October 2016, with the deaths of 19 people confirmed the following day.[1]"
Official website
Institute of Medical Sciences and Sum Hospital
Attractions
Image gallery
Welcome to Chamundi Hills
"Chamundi Hills seen from J.P.Nagar Library, Mysore"
Demon Mahishasura
Chamundeshwari Temple
"Chamundi Hills (Kannada: ಚಾಮುಂಡಿ ಬೆಟ್ಟ) is located 13 km east of Mysore, the Palace City, in Karnataka, India. Its average elevation is 1,000 metres (3,300 ft)."
"Patronized for centuries by Mysore rulers, Chamundeshwari Temple is located atop the Chamundi Hills. It was renovated during the time of Krishnaraja Wodeyar III (1827)."
"Named after goddess Chamundi, the Chamundeshwari Temple sits atop the main hill. The main hill itself features an ancient stone stairway of 1,008 steps leading to its summit. Approximately halfway to the summit is statue of bull Nandi, the vahana, or ""vehicle"" of Lord Shiva, which is 4.9m tall and 7.6m long and carved out of a single piece of black granite. Around this point, the steps become significantly less steep and eventually the climber is rewarded with a panoramic view of the city."
"From the peak of the Chamundi hills, the Mysore Palace, the Karanji Lake and several smaller temples are visible. Many of the temples were constructed by members of Shirdi Sai Baba movement."
"According to a legend, the asura Mahishasura (king of the city that is currently known as Mysore) was killed by goddess Chamundeswari (also called Chamundi) after a fierce battle. The goddess is also called Mahishasura Mardini.[1]"
"According to mythology, this rocky hill was known as Mahabalachala. Two ancient temples occupy the hill, the Mahabaleshvara and the Chamundeshvari; the Mahabaleshvara Temple on the hill is the older of the two and is a place of pilgrimage. The car festival and 'Teppotsava' are held there. Inspired by its name, a brand new coffee brand named Chamundi Hills has also been launched by a set of entrepreneurs in Bangalore."
"Eklingji, Harihara temple popularly called the Meera temple Name Proper name Eklingji Geography Country India State Rajasthan District Udaipur district Location Kailash Puri Culture Primary deity Shri Ekling Ji Important festivals Eklingji Patotsav, Maha Shivaratri Architecture Number of temples 108 History and governance Date built 8th Century Creator Bapa Rawal"
Eklingji is a Hindu temple complex in Udaipur District of Rajasthan in western India. Eklingji is believed to be the ruling deity of Mewar Princely State and the Ruler Maharana rules as his Dewan.
"Begun in 971, the temple complex was built by the Guhila dynasty of Mewar, in honor of their presiding deity Eklingji, a form of Lord Shiva. The beautifully sculpted temple complex includes 108 temples within its high walls. The main temple, which dates to the 15th century, was rebuilt from the ruins of an earlier destroyed temple. The walled complex is made of marble and granite and has an enormous double-storied, elaborately pillared hall or ""mandap"" under a vast pyramidal roof, with a four-faced image of Lord Shiva in black marble. Another temple in the complex is the Lakulish Temple; built in 971, it is the only temple of the Lakulish sect in the whole of India."
"Located 22 km north of Udaipur, Eklingji is conveniently reached by bus and car. Tourists can access to the complex from RSTC buses that runs from Udaipur to Eklingji and other major destinations of Rajasthan. It takes approximately an hour (60 Minutes) to reach Eklingji from Udaipur. The Eklingji temple is surrounded by long walls of hard rock. This fascinating temple was built in 734 A.D. It consists of 108 temples chiseled out of sandstone and marble. The Maharana of Udaipur pays a private visit to the temple on Monday evening."
Eklingji is a revered place of devotion for Hindu tourists in India. Lord is referred as the kuldevta (or Ishtadevata) of many Brahmins communities including Trivedi Mewada and Bhatt Mewada of Mewar & Gujarat region. Most of the faithful pilgrims visit the temple on Monday to seek the special blessings of Lord Shiva. On other days of the week the temple is relatively crowd free.
"There are other ancient temples near Eklingji, such another Shiva Temple that was built in the time of Maharana Raimal between 1473 and 1509."
Eklingji
Ketakeshwar Dewal (shrine) is a holy site in the Ketakibari area of Tezpur in Assam. It is reputed to have one of the largest Shiva lingas in the world.
The actual site has two parts - one part where the actual linga is located and another part a few metres away where the original base of the linga is located. Legend has it that during a severe earthquake in the past the linga was uprooted from its base and deposited where it currently stands.
This shrine is open to visitors and there is a local committee which oversees the development of the area around the site. Originally it was in the middle of bamboo groves with a small pathway for people to approach on foot. Recently there is a full shelter that has been built on the site for the protection of the holy area from the natural elements as well as for the devotees to assemble and offer their prayers.
Ketakeshwar Dewal
"Ahom king Swargadeo Rudra Singha dug the Joysagar tank, the world's largest man-made tank covering an area of 318 acres (1.29 km2) including its four banks in memory of his mother Sati Joymati. On its bank in 1703 he built the Rangnath Dol, a (Shiva) temple near the Borduar or main gateway on way from the Joysagar tank to the Talatal Ghar to offer prayer to Lord Shiva. Large numbers of devotees continue to visit and offer puja in this temple."
Hatimura Temple Name Proper name Hatimura Temple Geography Country India State Assam Location Silghat Culture Primary deity Durga History and governance Creator Pramatta Singha
"The Hatimura Temple is a shakti temple, located at Silghat, Nagaon district of Assam. It was built during the reign of Ahom king Pramatta Singha in 1667 Sakabda (1745-46 AD). It used to be an important center of Shaktism in ancient Assam. The presiding goddess is Durga which is known here as Mahisamardini.Human sacrifice was said to be made at the temple’s altars This place is also full of natural beauty which yet to explore."
"Tamresari temple, also known as Kesaikhaiti, is situated about 18 km away from Sadiya in Dibrugarh district now Tinsukia district, Assam, India. It is the remains of an old temple built by the Chutiyas in the 15th century.[1] The original Assamese word is Kesaikhaiti (kesa means raw and khaiti means eat), refers to a semi-pre-Hindu Goddess, a version of Goddess Kali, who accepts offerings of raw meat, hence the name (someone who eats raw).[2]"
The name Tamresari
"The wall and doors of the temple were well designed with beautiful works. There were two giant elephant sculptures with silver tusks at the main door. The walls were made without any mortar.The temple roof was made of copper(tam in assamese), that's why it is called Tamreswari. The whole temple was surrounded with brick walls and on the western wall there was a place for human sacrifice.[3]"
"Madhab Than Madhab Than Assam Geography Coordinates 26°12′N 92°38′E﻿ / ﻿26.20°N 92.63°E﻿ / 26.20; 92.63 Country India State/province Assam District Nagaon Locale Kampur Culture Primary deity Madhab(Sri Krishna), Shiva and Ganesh Important festivals Ashok-astomi mela, Rash, Janmanstami, Doll Yatra Architecture Number of temples 4 (four)"
"Sri Sri Madhab Than is a pilgrim center dedicated to lord Krishna. It is situated in the middle of Assam, in Nagaon district. Locality is Kampur."
"Mahamaya Temple, Dhubri"
"Mahamaya Dham or Mahamaya (supreme illusion) Temple of Bogribari, about 30 km east from Dhubri town and 10 km west from Bilasipara town, is regarded as a greatest Shakti Peethas[1] for Hindu pilgrims in Lower Assam, India. In terms of attractions, this temple is the second to Kamakhya Temple of Guwahati to the pilgrims and tourists.[2] It is believed that the famous goddess Mahamaya was traditionally worshipped by the local people of Parvatjowar like Kacharies, Koches and Naths. It was also the presiding deity of the Zamindar (landlord) of Parvatjowar. Latter the goddess received wide acceptance and these days, all Hindus of Lower Assam worship mother Mahamaya."
"This temple has a 400-year-old tradition of animal sacrifice especially at the time of Durga Puja. Usually hundreds of animals or birds, like buffaloes, goats, pigeons and ducks are slaughtered. It is always rumoured that animals are sacrificed when new large scale construction especially bridge is undertaken. These days animal lovers are voicing against this ghastly tradition.[3]"
"Entrance to Temple complex, Mahamaya, Dhubri"
"Another place of worship connected to Mahamaya goddess is the Mahamaya Snaanghat Temple, which is situated few kilometers away from the main Mahamaya temple. In the ancient time, as the local people belief, it is the place where the goddess Mahamaya used to take bath. From that time, the place came to be known as Mahamaya Snaanghat. Every year in the month of January around, a Shakti Yagya is performed here by the temple priests."
"Hayagriva Madhava Temple Hayagriva Madhava Temple Geography Country India State/province Assam District Kamrup Locale Hajo Culture Primary deity Jagannath, Buddha Important festivals Doul Utsav, Bihu, Janmastami History and governance Creator Urbarishi Reconstructed by: Raghudeva Narayan"
"Hayagriva Madhava Temple (Assamese: হয়গ্ৰীৱ মাধৱ মন্দিৰ) is situated on the Monikut hill.[1] The hill is situated in Hajo of Assam which is around 30 km to west of Guwahati.[1] The present temple structure was constructed by the King Raghudeva Narayan in 1583.[2] According to some historians the King of Pala dynasty constructed it in 6th century. It is a stone temple and it enshrines an image of Hayagriva Madhava. Some Buddhists believe that the Hayagriva Madhava temple, best known in the group of Hindu temples, is where the Buddha attained Nirvana. At this imposing temple, the presiding deity is worshipped as the Narasimha incarnation of Vishnu by the Hindus. The rows of elephants are seen on the body of the temple and they are fine specimens of Assamese art. There is a big pond known as Madhab Pukhuri near the temple. Doul, Bihu and Janmastami festivals are celebrated every year in the temple. Moreover, this temple preaches both Hinduism and Buddhism, which attract Buddhist Monks from far flung places. Sayani, the first wife of Kalia Bhomora Borphukan donated a family of paiks and also a plot of land for their maintenance to the Hayagriva Madhava temple during the reign of Ahom king Kamaleswar Singha."
Fort Temple
Important Festivals
Navratri
Shiv-Vivah
Shivratri
Transportation
"Aami Temple Name Other names Maa Ambika Asthan Proper name Aambika Bhawani Mandir Geography Coordinates 25°36′19″N 85°12′23″E﻿ / ﻿25.60531°N 85.20629°E﻿ / 25.60531; 85.20629 Country India State Bihar District saran Locale Dighwara Culture Primary deity Sati, Ambika Bhavani, Shiva Important festivals Durga Puja,Aami Mela, Shivaratri, Architecture Architectural styles Mandir, Yagya Kund Inscriptions Wall painting History and governance Date built Dwapar Yuga Creator Raja Daksha Prajapati"
"Aami Mandir considered as shakti peeth [1] is a very ancient temple of Goddess Sati situated in Dighwara, India."
"The temple is in the structure of a fort that is surrounded from all sides, on the bank of the River Ganga. It lies in the flood-prone district of Saran and it is very near the Ganges. The Ganga takes a curb at this point going to South. The image of the Ganga at this point is Lingvat. Even during a flood, the Ganga never touches the fort. The entire structure of Temple is on debris. During 1973 the then Director of the Department of Archaeology of the Government of Bihar Sri Prakash Chandra excavated and found a wall made of bricks used during the Pal dynasty."
"In the worship of Sakti an equidistant triangle has the same importance as Saligram for Lord Vishnu and Shiv Ling for Lord Shiva. The centre of the triangle is called Prambika Or Ambika. Surprisingly the distance of the three Siv Temples (Baidyanath , Vishwanath and Pashupati Nath) are equal and if you draw an imaginary line connecting the three Shiva Temple it will an equidistant triangle with Ambika Asthan Ami in the centre. This shows the importance of Ambika Asthan Ami."
"This place is also said to be the same place where King Surath & Samadhi Vaishya , performed AGYA for three years and got the desire fulfilled with the grace of Divine mother."
"There is a belief associated with the temple is that [2] one who worships over here, his/her wishes get fulfilled by the Goddess. Hence in Dussehra, worshippers from different places gather here to obtain the divine blessing."
"As the temple is devoted to Goddess Ambika, Navratri is celebrated and there is one small village fair also organised by the local people of Aami village."
"Shivratri is organised with quite a lot of excitement among the local people, as this was the place where the marriage ceremony of Shiv and Sati took place."
This festival is of high importance being organised in the manner of the marriage of Shiv and Sati. From one side the bride prepares and from one side comes the groom; according to this a fairy marriage ceremony is organised in a holy hindu way.
"The nearest airport is Jayprakash Narayan Airport patna at a distance of about 57 km from the temple. The Aami Village lies on the roadside of NH 19. It connects with the major cities of Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar Aami is itself a railway station."
Aami Mandir
"Baba Garib Asthan Temple Baba Garib Asthan Temple Location in Bihar Name Other names Baba Garib Nath Dham Devanagari बाबा गरीब स्थान मंदिर Geography Coordinates 26°7′28″N 85°23′25″E﻿ / ﻿26.12444°N 85.39028°E﻿ / 26.12444; 85.39028Coordinates: 26°7′28″N 85°23′25″E﻿ / ﻿26.12444°N 85.39028°E﻿ / 26.12444; 85.39028 Country India State/province Bihar District Muzaffarpur Culture Primary deity Lord Shiva Important festivals Maha Shivaratri, Sharabani Mela History and governance Creator unknown Governing body Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts Website garibnathdham.in"
Baba Garib Asthan Mandir is one of the oldest temple of lord Shiva situated in Muzaffarpur in the Indian state of Bihar.[1][2]
The temple is located at the Purani bazar area of Muzaffarpur.[3]
"Shri Mahaprabhuji's Baithakji Shri Mahaprabhuji's Baithakji Location in Bihar Name Proper name Lord Krishna Temple Geography Coordinates 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217Coordinates: 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217 Country India State Bihar District Vaishali Location Helabazar, Hajipur Culture Primary deity Lord Krishna Architecture Architectural styles Indian History and governance Date built During Mahaprabhuji's era Creator Gokulnathji"
"The Shri Mahaprabhuji's Baithakji is a Hindu Baithakji in the city of Hajipur, Bihar, India."
Baithakji Hajipur
Image (Bari Sangat Hajipur - Vaishali)
Significance of a Sangat
What is a Sangat?
"Bari Sangat Vaishali Bihar Bari Sangat Vaishali Bihar Location in Bihar Name Proper name Place for saints in ancient period to offer prayers Geography Coordinates 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217Coordinates: 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217 Country India State Bihar District Vaishali Location Helabazar/Rambhadar, Hajipur Architecture Architectural styles Indian History and governance Date built During Ancient India Creator Raajaputra ""for Saints and Brahmans"" Website N/A"
"The Bari Sangat - Helabazar is a Hindu Sangat in the city of Hajipur, Bihar, India. It is said to have been built during the reign of the Ancient Indian civilization."
"This sanctimonious place - ""Bari Sangat"" were visited by many saints in ancient period to offer prayers. Till this date this place has pious meaning to Hindu and Saints.[1]"
"Sangat is a Hindu term with its origin in the Sanskrit word 'sangh', which means company, fellowship and association. In Hindu or Sanatan vocabulary, the word has a special connotation. It stands for the body of men and women who meet religiously, especially in the presence of the Guru or Saints."
Till date also innumerable devotee of Lord Rama and Lord Krishna travel by rail and road to visit this holy place and stay in comfort.
Budhi mai Budhi mai temple in Ismailpur Haruli village Name Other names वृद्धाम्बा बुढ़ीमाई [1] बुढ़ी मैया [2] बूढ़ीमाई[3] Devanagari बुढि़या माई [4] Geography Coordinates 25°45′35.0″N 85°11′33.0″E﻿ / ﻿25.759722°N 85.192500°E﻿ / 25.759722; 85.192500Coordinates: 25°45′35.0″N 85°11′33.0″E﻿ / ﻿25.759722°N 85.192500°E﻿ / 25.759722; 85.192500 Country India State Bihar District Vaishali district Location Ismailpur
"Budhi Maior वृद्धाम्बा बुढि़या माई / बुढ़ीमाई[4] is a village in the Vaishali district, Bihar, India. It is a tourist destination with a rich a cultural and of historical heritage, and is a place of worship.[5][6] The Budhi Mai Temple is situated in Vaishali, Haruli, Ismailpur, near the State Bank of India, Lalganj Road, Vaishali. Budhi Mai Fair/Mela (बुढि़या माई हाट) is held in the month of July and August on Budhi Mai Campus, attracting visitors from all over Bihar.[4]"
"Burhanath temple situated on the bank of river Ganges, has statues dating 1937."
Shakti Peetha
"Maa Tara Chandi Mandir Maa Tara Chandi Mandir Location within Bihar Show map of Bihar Maa Tara Chandi Mandir Location within Bihar Show map of India Name Proper name Tara Chandi Temple Devanagari माँ तारा चंडी मंदिर Sanskrit transliteration Maa Tara Chandi Mandir Geography Coordinates 24°57′N 84°02′E﻿ / ﻿24.95°N 84.03°E﻿ / 24.95; 84.03Coordinates: 24°57′N 84°02′E﻿ / ﻿24.95°N 84.03°E﻿ / 24.95; 84.03 Country  India State Bihar District Rohtas Locale Sasaram, Bihar, India Elevation 110 m (361 ft) Culture Primary deity Durga maa Adi Parashakti, Shakti, Devi, Kali, Parvati, Tara Important festivals Navratri, Maha Shivaratri Architecture Architectural styles CaveTemple, MountainTemple Number of temples 1 History and governance Date built Dwapar Yuga Temple board Maa Tara Chandi Temple Committee, Sasaram Website http://m.sasaramonline.in/city-guide/maa-tara-chandi-temple-in-sasaram"
"Maa Tara Chandi Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Maa Shakti or Maa Durga, located in Sasaram, Bihar, India. It is one of the 52 Shakti Peetha.[1][2][3]"
"Maa Tarachandi Shakti Peetha, also called Maa Tarachandi, is the oldest and one of the most sacred temples of Sasaram. It is regarded as one of the 52 Siddha Shakti Pithas in India. According to Puranic legends, the ""right eye"" (Netra) of the corpse of Sati had fallen here when it was chopped off by Lord Vishnu with his ""Sudarshan Chakra"". The ancient temple, originally called Maa Sati, is believed to be the abode of the goddess Dur Maa Tara Chandi."
"The Kaimur Hills provide an access to many other attractions of Sasaram like Gupta Mahadev Temple, Parvati Temple, ancient caves, Manjhar Kund and Dhua Kund are two waterfalls of this town that have the capacity of generating large amounts of electricity.[4]"
"The Shakti Peetha (Sanskrit: शक्ति पीठ, Śakti Pīṭha,[5] seat of Shakti is a place of worship consecrated ashes of the goddess Shakti or Sati, the female principal of Hinduism and the main deity of the Shakta sect. They are sprinkled throughout the Indian subcontinent.[2]"
"There is a temple of Goddess Tarachandi, about 5 km from Sasaram two miles to the south, and an inscription of Pratap Dhawal on the rock close to the temple of Chandi Devi. Hindus in large number assemble to worship the goddess. Dhuwan Kund, located about 36 km south-west of this town, is a nearby tourist attraction.[6]"
Maa Tara Chandi Temple
King Karna
""
Chandika Asthan Name Other names sati pith Proper name Chandika Sthan Geography Coordinates 25°23′N 86°30′E﻿ / ﻿25.383°N 86.500°E﻿ / 25.383; 86.500Coordinates: 25°23′N 86°30′E﻿ / ﻿25.383°N 86.500°E﻿ / 25.383; 86.500 Country India State/province Bihar District Munger History and governance Website http://munger.nic.in/religious.html
"Chandika Sthan is a Hindu temple situated in Munger, in the Indian state of Bihar. It is one of the fifty one Shakti Peethas, places of worship consecrated to the goddess Shakti. On the Northeast corner of Munger, Chandika Sthan is just two kilometers away from the Munger town. Being a Siddhi-Peetha, Chandika Sthan is considered to be one of the most sacred and sanctified temples, as important as the Kamakshya temple near Guwahati."
Shiva carrying the corpse of Sati Devi
"The Chandika Sthan Temple is believed to be a Shakti Peetha, divine shrine of Shaktism. The mythology of Daksha yaga and Sati's self immolation and Shiva carrying the corpse of Sati Devi is the story of origin behind the Shakti Peetha shrines. It is believed that Sati Devi's left eye has fallen here.[1][2][3]"
"Another legend connected with Chandika Sthan is regarding King Karna of the ancient Indian kingdom of Anga, who used to worship Chandi Mata every day and in turn the Goddess gave him 11/4 pounds (equivalent to 50 kilograms) of gold for distribution among the needy and downtrodden at Karanchaura,now a local name for the vicinity."
"Chandika Sthan is approximately a 1 km distance from ITC Ltd, Basudevpur, Munger. The nearest railway station is Munger Junction, and the nearest airport is Patna Airport."
"Kapileshwar Temple is situated in the Rahika region of Madhubani District, Bihar, India. A Shiva Linga was placed at this temple by a Kapila sage. The site is located in Rahika Vidhan Sabha constituency.This is one of the famous shiva temple in Madhubani District."
"Khudneshwar Asthan, Morwa Khudneshwar Asthan, Morwa Location within Bihar Name Other names Mahadev Mandir Proper name Khudneshwar Asthan Sanskrit transliteration Śri Khudneshwar Mandir Hindi खुद्नेश्वर स्थान Geography Coordinates 25°48′43″N 85°41′31″E﻿ / ﻿25.812°N 85.692°E﻿ / 25.812; 85.692 Country India State/province Bihar District Samastipur District Culture Primary deity Lord Shiva Important festivals Mahashivratri, Shravani Mela, Architecture Architectural styles Mandir Number of temples 4 History and governance Date built 1858 Creator Narhan Estate"
Khudneshwar Asthan is a Hindu temple devoted to Lord Shiva located 17 kilometers southwest of the Samastipur district headquarters.[1]
The name of the temple was inherited from a Muslim woman named Khudni who found the Lingam at this location and became a devotee of Lord Shiva. Her mortal remains were buried one yard south beside the Lingam under the same temple roof.
"During the British Empire, Narhan estate built this temple in 1858 and appointed a priest as a caretaker. Devotees flock there yearround, but especially during its annual festival of Maha Shivratri and in the month of Shravan, crowds emerge for darshana and worship. In 2008 Bihar Religious Trust Board Chairman Kishore Kunal provided financial assistance from the board and announced it to be developed for tourists to demonstrate Hindu-Muslim unity."
"In the 14th century the temple site was covered by dense forest and was used mainly for grazing cattle. Khudni often went there for grazing her cow. One day while returning home after grazing, she tried milking her cow but received no milk. This continued for several days. One day while grazing, the cow left her sight. She found the cow and was astonished to see her cow shedding milk. She ran to the village to relate her discovery. The local people cleared the ground and started digging, only to find a Lingam. After her death her remains were buried beside the Lingam. They erected a temple that they named ""Khudneshwar Asthan"" inherited from the name of the Muslim woman Khudni Biwi."
Khudneshwar Asthan Morwa
"Lal Keshwar Shiv Mandir Lal Keshwar Shiv Mandir Location in Bihar Name Proper name Lord Shiva Temple Geography Coordinates 25°42′N 85°12′E﻿ / ﻿25.700°N 85.200°E﻿ / 25.700; 85.200Coordinates: 25°42′N 85°12′E﻿ / ﻿25.700°N 85.200°E﻿ / 25.700; 85.200 Country India State Bihar District Vaishali Location Bagmusha, Hajipur Culture Primary deity Lord Shiva Architecture Architectural styles Indian History and governance Date built 5 Aug 2015"
"The Lal Keshwar Shiv Mandir is a Hindu Temple in the city of Hajipur, Bihar, India. Dedicated to Lord Shiva, it is located at Bagmusha(Hajipur), Vaishali As per local folklore, it is said to have been in existence since ancient period and Lord Shiva is believed to be in the form of Lingam here. Apart from anthropomorphic images of Shiva, the worship of Shiva in the form of a lingam, or linga, is also important. The worship of the Shiva-Linga originated from the famous hymn in the Atharva-Veda Samhitâ sung in praise of the Yupa-Stambha, the sacrificial post."
Lal Keshwar Shiv Temple
Deity
Gallery (Ramchaura Mandir - Hajipur)
Significance of a Ramchaura Mandir
"Ramchaura Mandir Ramchaura Mandir Location in Bihar Name Proper name Lord Ram Temple Geography Coordinates 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217Coordinates: 25°40′N 85°13′E﻿ / ﻿25.667°N 85.217°E﻿ / 25.667; 85.217 Country India State Bihar District Vaishali Location Rambhadra, Hajipur Culture Primary deity Lord Ram Architecture Architectural styles Indian History and governance Date built During Ramayana Period (Exact date not known)"
"The Ramchaura Mandir is a Hindu Temple in the city of Hajipur, Bihar, India. Dedicated to Lord Rama, it is located at Rambhadra near Helabazar, Hajipur. As per local folklore, it is said to have been in existence since Ramayana period and Lord Shri Ram is believed to have visited this place on his way to Janakpur, where his footprints are worshiped. The Ramchaura Mandir has tradition of celebrating Rama Navami, the birth anniversary of Rama, every year. A small fair is also organised on the eve of Rama Navami."
Archeological objects excavated from Ramchaura are kept at the Patna Museum [1]
Chaura is a Bhojpuri language word which means orchid.
"The presiding deity of the temple is 'Lord Rama'. Rama Navami is celebrated with full zeal and enthusiasm. It is a Hindu festival, celebrating the birth of Lord Rama to King Dasharatha and Queen Kausalya of Ayodhya. Ram is the 7th incarnation of the Dashavatara of Vishnu. The SreeRama Navami festival falls in the Shukla Paksha on the Navami, the ninth day of the month of Chaitra in the Hindu calendar. Thus it is also known as Chaitra Masa Suklapaksha Navami, and marks the end of the nine-day Chaitra-Navratri celebrations."
"Chandi Mandir (Hindu, Mandir: ""Temple"") is a Hindu temple near Chandigarh, India, dedicated to Chandi, the goddess of power. It is about 15 km from the city of Chandigarh, which was named after the temple, and about 10 km away from the Mansa Devi Shrine. The temple is situated amidst beautiful surroundings and the backdrop of the Shivalik hills."
"During the festival of Navratras, thousands of people visit this temple. The temple has statues of various Hindu deities including Chandi, Radha Krishna, Hanuman, Shiva and Ram."
Structure
"barfani dham बर्फानि धाम अधवा पातालभैरवि मन्दिर् temple barfani dham Show map of Chhattisgarh barfani dham Show map of India Location in Chhattisgarh, India Coordinates: 21°5′34″N 81°00′22″E﻿ / ﻿21.09278°N 81.00611°E﻿ / 21.09278; 81.00611Coordinates: 21°5′34″N 81°00′22″E﻿ / ﻿21.09278°N 81.00611°E﻿ / 21.09278; 81.00611 Country  India State Chhattisgarh District Rajnandgaon Languages  • Official Hindi, Chhattisgarhi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration CG Nearest city Dongargarh"
Barfani dham is a temple in the town of Rajnandgaon in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh..[1] It is 40 kilometres (25 mi) from Durg towards Nagpur. A large Shiva Linga can be seen at the top of the temple while a large Nandi statue stands in front of it.
"The temple is constructed in three levels. The bottom layer is the shrine of Pathal bhairavi, the second is the Navadurga or Tripura Sundari shrine and the upper level is of Shiva."
"Dudhadhari temple is a Hindu temple, located at Raipur Mathpara in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh.[1]"
"Ganga Maiya is a holy place situated in Jhalmala, a place near Balod in Durg District. During the Hindu festival of Navratri, this place is very crowded. Many worshipers of Maa Durga come here to every year to celebrate the Navratri. Navratri is celebrated twice a year i.e. in the Hindu month of Chaitra and Kunwar. During these nine days devotes keep fasting and thousands of people visit this place barefoot and they come by walking from long distance."
Temple
Maa Bageshwari Devi Geography Country India State Chhattisgarh District Surajpur History and governance Website www.Maakudargarhi.in
Kudargarh is a famous Hindu pilgrim centre situated in Surajpur District of the state of Chhattisgarh in India. It is 40 km from district headquarters of Surajpur connected by an all-weather road. The best time to visit is during Chaitra Navaratra (in the month of April).
The Maa Bagheshwari Devi Temple dedicated to Goddess Kudargarhi is perched on top of a hill and is the major attraction in Kudargarh.
"Also Devotees throng this temple to appease the goddess for the fulfillment of their desires. On fulfillment of their wish, the Goddess is offered with the blood of a goat which is poured into a small hole (kund) of 6 inch in diameter. It is said that the kund would not get filled up even if thousands of goat's blood is poured into it, in which blood goat in honour of devi is given, a fact is that it never overflows."
Kudargarh
Sthaneshwar Mahadev Mandir
"The ancient Sthaneshwar Mahadev Temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva is situated in Thanesar, a holy town in the Kurukshetra district of Haryana. It was here that the Pandavas along with Krishna prayed to Lord Shiva and received his blessings for victory in the battle of Mahabharata.[1][2] The ninth Guru, Shri Tegh Bahadur stayed at a spot near the Sthaneshwar Tirtha that is marked by a gurdwara just besides this temple."
Legend
"Legend has it that the waters of the tank adjoining the temple are holy. A few drops of water cured the King Ban of leprosy. No pilgrimage of Kurukshetra is believed to be complete without a visit to this ancient, holy temple. The tank and temple lie a short distance from the Thanesar town, which gets its name from this temple. It is also believed that Lord Shiva was first worshipped here in the form of a lingam. The ancestor of the Mahabharata heroes, Kuru, performed penance on the banks of the Yamuna and Parshuram, the great warrior sage killed many Kshatriyas here."
About the deity
The temple of Sthaneshwar is the abode of Lord Shiva and this town served as the capital of Emperor Harshavardhana. The temple with a dome-shaped roof follows a regional type of architecture. The facade of the roof is shaped like an 'amla' along with a tall pinnacle. The Lingam is ancient and still venerated by the local people.
Laxmi Narayan Temple Laxmi Narayan Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°15′53″N 85°51′40″E﻿ / ﻿20.26472°N 85.86111°E﻿ / 20.26472; 85.86111Coordinates: 20°15′53″N 85°51′40″E﻿ / ﻿20.26472°N 85.86111°E﻿ / 20.26472; 85.86111 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 17 m (56 ft) Culture Primary deity Laxmi Narayana Architecture Architectural styles kalingan Kalinga Architecture
"Laxmi Narayan Temple is located in the Kapileswar temple precinct. The enshrined deity is Laxmi- Narayana seated in padmasana over a lotus pedestal. Narayana has four arms holding conch in his upper right hand, a lotus in upper left hand and lower left hand is holding a mace. Laxmi is seating on his left lap. Both the images are crowned with Kirita mukuta. Laxmi is holding a lotus. The temple has a vimana in pidha order. On plan the temple measure 1.46 m in length and on its width it is merged with the kitchen walls. The total height of the temple is 3.24 m (bada 1.34 m, gandi 1.15 m, and mastaka 0.75 m). The cella measure 0.90 square m. There is a Garuda image over a pillar in front of the temple. The doorjamb measure 1.15 m in height x 0.50 m in width. This temple is closely attached with the pathway of the kitchen."
Deity
Mandodari Temple
"The Shri Mandodari temple is in the village of Betaki,[1] about 5 km from Marcel, Ponda, India. The temple is located at 15d 30'20, 82d N and 73d59'23d E at 81 ft elevation."
"This is a temple for the ""gramdevata"" or the village deity of Betki. It is not a temple for Ravana's wife Mandodari."
Shree Mandodari Devasthan has completed 102 years of its Constitution in 2013.
"Mandodari Temple, Betki"
Schedule
Significance
EME Temple Geography Country India State/province Gujarat Location Vadodara Culture Primary deity Dakshinamurty (Shiva) Architecture Architectural styles Modern architecture History and governance Date built 1966 Creator Indian Army
"The EME Temple or ""Dakshinamurty Temple"" is a Shiva Temple run by Indian Army Authorities in the city of Vadodara in the state of Gujarat, western India. It is a unique in concept & design, geodesic structure covered with aluminium sheets. It was built by the Electrical and Mechanical Engineering (EME) corps of the Indian Army. This temple is a major attraction for both tourist and devotees.[1]"
This temple is a symbol of secularism in the country as it displays various features of different major religions of India.[2]
"- The kalasha (Sanskrit: कलश; kalaśa, meaning ""pot"" made of a metal, commonly brass, copper, silver or gold) on the top of the dome represents Hinduism."
Temple opens at 5:30 AM for general public. Devotees can also experience sculpture art of 7th century to 15th century. Landscape inside temple is very beautiful and well maintained by Indian Army. [3]
"Juna Bhavnath Temple is a temple dedicated to Shiva in Mau village of Bhiloda Taluka of Aravalli district, Gujarat, India."
"It is situated 6km away from Bhiloda and is about 1300 years old acknowledged from an inscription. There is a reservoir, kund, named Bhrigukund which believed to cure leprosy if bathed in its water. There is a temple dedicated to Shiva and temple dedicated to the son of Bhrigu, Avan Rishi. The place is situated on the banks of Hathmati river dam. The fair is organised on the last Monday of Shraavana month of Hindu calendar and on Mahashivratri which is visited by large number of people.[1][2]"
"Bhavnath Temple, Mau"
Following
History and description
"Kashtabhanjandev Hanuman Mandir Shri Hanuman Mandir, Sarangpur Kashtabhanjandev Hanuman Mandir Location in Gujarat Geography Coordinates 22°9′23″N 71°46′19″E﻿ / ﻿22.15639°N 71.77194°E﻿ / 22.15639; 71.77194 Country India State Gujarat District Botad district Location Salangpur Culture Primary deity Hanuman in the form of Kastbhanjan History and governance Creator Gopalanand Swami"
"Shri Hanuman Mandir, Sarangpur is a Hindu temple located in Sarangpur, Gujarat and comes under the Vadtal Gadi of the Swaminarayan Sampraday. It is the only Swaminarayan Temple which does not have the Murtis of either Swaminarayan or Krishna as the Primary deity of worship.[1] It is dedicated to Hanuman in the form of Kastbhanjan (Crusher of sorrows).[2]"
"This temple is among the more prominent ones in the Swaminarayan Sampraday. The idol of Hanuman was installed by Sadguru Gopalanand Swami. According to author Raymond Williams, it is reported that when Sadguru Gopalanand Swami installed the idol of Hanuman, he touched it with a rod and the idol came alive and moved. This story has become a charter for the healing ritual performed at this temple.[1] The idol of Hanuman here is a stout figure with a handlebar moustache, crushing a female demon under his foot and baring his teeth, standing among sculpted foliage full of fruit bearing monkey attendants.[2] In 1899, Kothari Gordhandas of Vadtal appointed Shastri Yagnapurushdas to manage the affairs of the mandir; during his tenure, Shastri Yagnapurushdas renovated the site, built the adjacent bungalow, and acquired more land for the complex to bring it to its current state.[3]"
"Pindara Temple is situated about 6.5 km from Pindara, Jind, India.[1]"
"According to a legend, the Pandavas offered here pinds to their forefathers and hence the popular name of the village is Pandu Pindara. A fair is held on Somavati Amavas."
Pindara Temple
Sannihit Sarovar
"Sannihit Sarovar is a sacred water reservoir in Thanesar in Kurukshetra district. It is believed to be the meeting point of seven sacred Sarasvatis.[1] The sarovar, according to popular belief, contains sacred water. Bathing in the waters of the tank on the day of Amavasya (night of complete darkness) or on the day of an eclipse bestows blessings equivalent to performing the ashvamedh yajna."
"Bathing in this sarovar is believed to offer peace to wandering and unhappy souls. Prayers and pind daan, a memorial service for the dead, is performed here. Alongside the sarovar are small shrines dedicated to Lord Vishnu, Dhruv Narayan, Laxmi Narayan, Dhruv Bhagat, Sri Hanuman and Goddess Durga. The Sannihit Sarovar is believed to be the abode of Lord Vishnu."
"Find it on Google Earth at 29° 57' 60"" N 76° 50' 08 E"
"The Rukmini Devi Temple is a temple in Dwarka, 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) away from Dwarka, India. It is dedicated to Rukmini, Krishna’s chief queen. The temple is said to be 2,500 years old but in its present form it is inferred to belong to the 12th century."
It is a richly carved temple decorated with sculptures of gods and goddesses on the exterior with the sanctum housing the main image of Rukmini. Carved naratharas (human figures) and carved gajatharas (elephants) are depicted in panels at the base of the tower.
Legends
"An interesting legend is narrated to justify separate dwelling temples, far away from each other, for Rukmini and her husband Krishna. It is said that at the request of sage Durvasa (who was renowned for his short temper and bestowing curses) Krishna and Rukmini pulled a chariot taking sage Durvasa to their house for dinner. On the way, when Rukmini asked for water to quench her thirst, Krishna drew Ganges water, by prodding the ground with his toe, for her to drink. Rukmini quenched her thirst with the Ganges water. But Durvasa felt insulted as Rukmini did not have the courtesy to offer him water to drink. He, therefore, cursed her that she would live separately from her husband.[1]"
Agroha Vikas Trust
Description
Festival
History and development
Agroha Dham Name Proper name Agroha Dham Devanagari अग्रोहा धाम Geography Coordinates 29°19′54″N 75°37′31″E﻿ / ﻿29.33167°N 75.62528°E﻿ / 29.33167; 75.62528Coordinates: 29°19′54″N 75°37′31″E﻿ / ﻿29.33167°N 75.62528°E﻿ / 29.33167; 75.62528 Country India State Haryana District Hisar Location Agroha (town) Culture Primary deity Mahalakshmi Important festivals Agroha Maha Kumbh Architecture Architectural styles Vastu Shastra Number of temples 3 Number of monuments 1 History and governance Date established 1984 Date built 1984 Creator Tilak Raj Aggarwal Temple board Agroha Vikas Trust Website http://www.agroha.com/
"Agroha (Devnagari: अग्रोहा धाम) is a Hindu temple complex in Agroha, India. Construction started in 1976 and was completed in 1984.[1] The temple is dedicated to the Hindu goddess Mahalakshmi."
The decision to construct the temple was made at the convention of All India Aggarwal Representatives in 1976. The trust was established for this purpose under Shri Krishna Modi and Rameshwar Das Gupta.[2] The land was donated to the trust by Laxmi Narain Gupta and construction was started under the supervision of Tilak Raj Aggarwal. The construction of the main temple was completed in 1984 while construction of other features started in 1985 under Subhash Goel.[3]
"The main temple is divided into three wings. The central wing is dedicated to Hindu goddess Mahalakshmi, western wing to goddess Saraswati and eastern wing to Maharaja Agrasena.[4]"
"Shakti Sarovar is a large pond behind the temple complex. It was filled with water from 41 rivers of India in 1988. A platform at the north-west end depicts the scene of Samudra manthan.[5] A naturopathy center is located near Shakti Sarovar, where treatment is done through yoga.[6] An amusement park with a boating site has been built near the complex.[7]"
Agroha Vikas Trust is the temple board responsible for the building and maintenance of the temple complex. It was founded in 1976.[8]
The Agroha Maha Kumbh festival is held every year on Sharad Purnima.[9]
Agroha Dham
"Alvin Kallicharran Personal information Full name Alvin Isaac Kallicharran Born (1949-03-21) 21 March 1949 Georgetown, British Guyana Nickname Kalli Height 1.64 m (5 ft 5 in) Batting style Left-handed batsman Bowling style Right-arm off break Role Batsman Relations D. I. Kallicharran (brother), M. V. Nagamootoo (nephew) International information National side West Indies Test debut (cap 144) 6 April 1972 v New Zealand Last Test 4 January 1981 v Pakistan ODI debut (cap 7) 5 September 1973 v England Last ODI 4 February 1981 v England Domestic team information Years Team 1967–1981 Guyana 1971–1990 Warwickshire 1972–1974 Berbice 1977–1978 Queensland 1981–1984 Transvaal 1984–1988 Orange Free State 1984–1987 Impalas Career statistics Competition Tests ODIs FC List A Matches 66 31 505 383 Runs scored 4399 826 32650 11336 Batting average 44.43 34.41 43.64 34.66 100s/50s 12/21 0/6 87/160 15/71 Top score 187 78 243* 206 Balls bowled 406 105 7133 2294 Wickets 4 3 84 42 Bowling average 39.50 21.33 47.97 43.40 5 wickets in innings 0 0 1 1 10 wickets in match 0 n/a Best bowling 2/16 2/10 5/45 6/32 Catches/stumpings 51/0 8/0 323/- 86/- Source: Cricinfo, 2 July 2013"
"Alvin Isaac Kallicharran (born 21 March 1949) is a former West Indian batsman of Indo-Guyanese ethnicity who played from 1972 to 1981. Kallicharran was born in Georgetown, British Guiana (now Guyana). His brother Derek played first class cricket for Guyana and later the United States of America. A left-handed batsman and right-arm off spinner, Kallicharran was known for his elegant, watchful batting style. He was a Wisden Cricketer of the Year for 1973. He was part of the 1975 and 1979 teams that won the Cricket World Cup. His highest score is 187 against India in the 1978–79 tour. He also found success with Warwickshire in English County cricket. While playing against minor county Oxfordshire in the 1984 one day Natwest Trophy he scored 206 and took 6 for 32.[1]"
"One of his most noted international innings, a knock of 158 against England, was shrouded in controversy when he was run out by Tony Greig on the final ball of the first day. He attempted to join World Series Cricket, but failed, and was appointed captain of the West Indies in 1977–1978 when Clive Lloyd resigned over the Packer issue. Kallicharan was later involved in further controversy when he led an unofficial rebel tour to South Africa in defiance of the Gleneagles Agreement and anti-apartheid protesters in that country who asserted that official sporting structures were discriminatory. He saw out the rest of his career playing for Orange Free State and Transvaal in South African domestic cricket. He is currently manager of Lashings World XI."
Kallicharran is Brand Ambassador of UiTV Connect – A Global Internet Network.[2][3]
Alvin Kallicharran
Major cities on/off NH 19
"National Highway 19 (NH 19; previously NH2) is a National Highway in India.[1] Often referred as Delhi–Kolkata Road, it is one of the busiest National Highways in India. The highway has a length of 1,435 km (892 mi) and runs through the states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal. It constitutes a major portion of the historical Grand Trunk Road along with NH 1 and NH 91 in India."
The lengths of the highway in each state are:
Delhi: 12 km (7.5 mi) Uttar Pradesh: 752 km (467 mi) Bihar: 202 km (126 mi) Jharkhand: 190 km (120 mi) West Bengal: 235 km (146 mi)
"Almost all of the 1,435 km (892 mi) stretch of NH 19 has been selected as a part of the Golden Quadrilateral by the National Highways Development Project.[2] Approximately 253 km (157 mi) stretch of NH 19 between Delhi and Agra has been selected as a part of the North-South Corridor by the National Highways Development Project.[2] Approximately 35 km (22 mi) stretch of NH 19 between Barah and Kanpur has been selected as a part of the East-West Corridor by the National Highways Development Project.[2] It is also part of AH1 of Asian Highway Network, that traverses from Japan to Turkey."
National Highway 19 (India)
"Delhi, a major metropolitan region of India, is connected to various parts of country through several national highways. Most of the highways from Delhi lead to Haryana or Uttar Pradesh and continue from there. Delhi is directly connected to the state of Haryana by The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and National Highway 8 to city of Gurgaon, National Highway 2 to the city of Faridabad, National Highway 1 to the city of Panipat, and National Highway 10 to the city of Rohtak. Delhi is directly connected to the state of Uttar Pradesh by the DND Flyway to the city of Noida and National Highway 24 to Ghaziabad."
Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on National Highway 8
"Delhi-Gurgaon Expresswayis a 28 km long access-controlled toll expressway connecting Delhi, the national capital of India, and Gurgaon on National Highway 8 (India) The highway runs from Delhi to Mumbai, Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway till outskirts of Gurgaon. The expressway is a part of Golden Quadrilateral project, which itself is a part of ambitious National Highway Development Project (NHDP) and emphasizes improving road connectivity between four metropolitan cities of India, namely Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata by developing 4–6 lane highways between them."
"The much-delayed Rs.10 billion, 27.7 km expressway was thrown open on January 23, 2008. It has helped reduce the travel time of hundreds of thousands of commuters and international air passengers. ehicle users have to pay a toll for using the expressway, which is collected at three points, near the Indira Gandhi International Airport, the Delhi-Gurgaon Border and the 42nd Milestone. Since it began operation, it has also achieved notoriety for a large number of accidents involving pedestrians. There are only two overbridges along the entire stretch to cater to the communities living on either side of heavily populated areas through which the expressway runs. The toll plaza at the Delhi-Gurgaon border has also proved inadequate to handle the increasing traffic, leading to traffic jams during peak hours. Though the plaza is tag enabled, only 40 percent of the traffic that passes through avails of this facility.[1]"
Delhi Noida Direct Flyway
"The Delhi Noida Direct Flyway (DND) is an eight-laned access controlled tolled expressway which connects Delhi to Noida, an industrial suburb area. It was built and is maintained by The Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. The acronym DND stands for ""Delhi-Noida Direct"". The project, built by the Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. (NTBCL) was developed under a Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) model. The Noida Toll Bridge Company promoted by the Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS). The project included the construction of a flyover at Ashram Chowk and the construction of a 552.5 meter bridge over the Yamuna river.[2][3]"
National Highway 1
National Highway 1 or (NH 1) is a National Highway in Northern India that links the National capital New Delhi to the town of Attari in Punjab near the Indo-Pakistani border. The highway is maintained by National Highways Authority of India.[4] The highway originally started from Lahore in Pakistan. This is one of the longest and oldest highways of India.
"The present day NH 1 passes through Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat and Delhi. It runs for a distance of 456 km. The Delhi–Lahore Bus travels on NH 1 in India. NH 1 presently has 4 different spur routes designated as 1A, 1B, 1C and 1D. Approximately 380 km stretch of NH 1 from Jalandhar to Delhi is a part of the North-South Corridor.[5]"
National Highway 2
"National Highway 2 (NH 2), commonly referred as Delhi-Kolkata Road is a busy Indian National Highway that runs through the states of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal. It constitute a major portion of historical Grand Trunk Road along with NH 91 and NH 1 in India. The road is the part of National Highway network of India, and it is officially listed as running over 1465 km from Delhi to Kolkata. The km in each of the states are Delhi (12), Haryana (74), Uttar Pradesh (752), Bihar (202), Jharkhand (190), West Bengal (235)."
"The highway touches the cities of Faridabad in Haryana, Mathura, Agra, Etawah, Bhoganipur, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, Mohania in Bihar, Barhi, Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Asansol, Durgapur, Kolkata in West Bengal."
Highways passing from Delhi
Almost all of the 1465 km stretch of NH 2 has been selected as a part of the Golden Quadrilateral by the National Highways Development Project.[5] Approximately 253 km stretch of NH 2 between Delhi and Agra has been selected as a part of the North-South Corridor by the National Highways Development Project.[5][6]Approximately 35 km stretch of NH 2 between Barah and Kanpur has been selected as a part of the East-West Corridor by the National Highways Development Project.[5]
National Highway 8
"National Highway 8 (NH 8), is a National Highway in India that connects the Indian capital city of New Delhi with the Indian Financial capital city of Mumbai. The highway passes through the State capitals of Gandhinagar and Jaipur, as well as important cities like Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara."
"This highway is part of the Golden Quadrilateral project undertaken by National Highways Authority of India[6] and was the first part to be completed. The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is a part of NH 8. Before entering downtown Mumbai, NH 8 passes through nearly all suburbs on the Western line of Mumbai Suburban Railway, where it is popularly known as Western Express Highway."
National Highway 10
National Highway 10 (NH 10) is a National Highway in northern India that originates at Delhi and ends at the town of Fazilka in Punjab near the Indo-Pakistani border.
National Highway 24
National Highway 24 or NH 24 is a National Highway in India that connects the National capital Delhi to Uttar Pradesh state capital Lucknow running 438 kilometers in length.[7]
Coaches
Routeing
Time Table
The 19027/28 Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express is Express train of the Vivek Express series belonging to Indian Railways that runs between Bandra Terminus and Jammu Tawi in India.
"The 19027/28 Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express presently has 1 AC 2 tier, 3 AC 3 tier, 8 Sleeper Class & 6 General Unreserved coaches."
The 19027 Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express covers the distance of 1886 kilometres in 37 hours 10 mins (50.74 km/hr) & 1881 kilometres in 36 hours 55 mins (50.95 km/hr) as 19028 Jammu Tawi Bandra Terminus Vivek Express.
"As the average speed of the train is below 55 km/hr, as per Indian Railway rules, its fare does not include a Superfast surcharge."
"The 19027/28 Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express runs via Vadodara Junction, Ahmedabad Junction, Abu Road, Jodhpur Junction, Hisar, Ludhiana Junction, Chakki Bank to Jammu Tawi."
19027 Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express leaves Bandra Terminus every Saturday at 12:05 hrs IST and reaches Jammu Tawi at 01:15 hrs IST on the 3rd day.
19028 Jammu Tawi Bandra Terminus Vivek Express leaves Jammu Tawi every Monday at 09:30 hrs IST and reaches Bandra Terminus at 22:25 hrs IST the next day.
Bandra Terminus Jammu Tawi Vivek Express
Bibliography
Men's One-Day International captains
Men's Twenty-20 International captains
Men's cricket
Test match captains
Test match captains
Test match captains
Women's One-Day International captains
Women's Twenty-20 International captains
Women's cricket
Youth One-Day International captains
Youth cricket
"This is a list of all cricketers who have captained Indian national cricket team at the international level. The list includes all Indian captains of men's, women's and youth cricket. India became a full member of the Imperial Cricket Conference (now the International Cricket Council) on 31 May 1926. On 25 June 1932 it became the sixth Test nation after England, Australia, South Africa, the West Indies and New Zealand when they took on England at Lord's. They played only seven tests, which were all against England, before the Second World War, losing five matches and drawing twice. Their first game against other opposition came in 1947–48 when they played against Sir Donald Bradman's Invincibles (a name given to the Australia national cricket team of that time)."
This is a list of cricketers who have captained the Indian women's cricket team for at least one women's one-day international. The World Cup Final appearance against Australia in 2004/5 represents India's best performance in a Women's World Cup.
Number Name Year Played Won Lost Tied No result Win %[9] 1 Ajit Wadekar 1974 2 0 2 0 0 0.00 2 Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan 1975–1979 7 1 6 0 0 14.28 3 Bishen Singh Bedi 1975/6-1978/9 4 1 3 0 0 25.00 4 Sunil Gavaskar 1980/1-1985/6 37 14 21 0 2 40.00 5 Gundappa Viswanath 1980/1 1 0 1 0 0 0.00 6 Kapil Dev 1982/3-1992/1993 74 39 33 0 2 54.16 7 Syed Kirmani 1983/4 1 0 1 0 0 0.00 8 Mohinder Amarnath 1984/1985 1 0 0 0 1 NA 9 Ravi Shastri 1986/7-1991/2 11 4 7 0 0 36.36 10 Dilip Vengsarkar 1987/8-1988/9 18 8 10 0 0 44.44 11 Krishnamachari Srikkanth 1989/90 13 4 8 0 1 33.33 12 Mohammad Azharuddin 1989/90-1999 174 90 72 8 4 51.72 13 Sachin Tendulkar 1996-1999/2000 73 23 43 1 6 35.07 14 Ajay Jadeja 1997/8-1999/2000 13 8 5 0 0 61.53 15 Sourav Ganguly 1999–2005 146[10] 76 65[10] 0 5 53.90 16 Rahul Dravid 2000/1 - 2007 79 42 33 0 4 56.00 17 Anil Kumble 2001/2 1 1 0 0 0 100.00 18 Virender Sehwag 2003 - 2011 12 7 5 0 0 58.33 19 Mahendra Singh Dhoni 2007 – 2016 199 110 74 4 11 59.57 20 Suresh Raina 2010 – 2014 12 6 5 0 1 54.54 21 Gautam Gambhir 2010 - 2011 6 6 0 0 0 100.00 22 Virat Kohli 2013 - 2017 17 14 3 0 0 82.35 23 Ajinkya Rahane 2015 3 3 0 0 0 100.00 Total 904 457 401 7 39 53.23
"Where a player has a daggehr (†) next to a Test match series in which she captained at least one Test, it denotes that the player deputised for the appointed captain or was appointed for a minor proportion in a series."
The table of results is updated as 11 September 2014.
This is a list of cricketers who have captained the Indian women's cricket team for at least one Twenty 20 International.[17]
The table of results is complete as of August 2014. * mark has been added after the names of players who went on to represent India in at least one men's international match (Test match or ODI match).
"The table of results is complete as of 16 August 2014. * mark has been added after the names of players who went on to represent India in at least one men's international match (Test match, ODI or T20 match)."
"Where a player has a dagger (†) next to a Test match series in which he captained at least one Test, it denotes that the player deputised for the appointed captain or was appointed for a minor proportion in a series."
This is the list of the 32 cricketers who have captained the Indian cricket team for at least one Test match. So far Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the most successful Indian test captain with 27 wins. Former captain Sourav Ganguly is the most successful Indian test captain overseas with 11 wins.[1]
The table of results is complete as of 20 December 2016.
Indian Test match captains[2] Number Name Year Opposition Location Played Won Lost Drawn 1 CK Nayudu 1932 England England 1 0 1 0 1933/4 England India 3 0 2 1 Total 4 0 3 1 2 Maharajkumar of Vizianagram 1936 England England 3 0 2 1 Total 3 0 2 1 3 Iftikhar Ali Khan Pataudi 1946 England England 3 0 1 2 Total 3 0 1 2 4 Lala Amarnath 1947/8 Australia Australia 5 0 4 1 1948/9 West Indies India 5 0 1 4 1952/3 Pakistan India 5 2 1 2 Total 15 2 6 7 5 Vijay Hazare 1951/2 England India 5 1 1 3 1952 England England 4 0 3 1 1952/3 West Indies West Indies 5 0 1 4 Total 14 1 5 8 6 Vinoo Mankad 1954/5 Pakistan Pakistan 5 0 0 5 1958/9† West Indies India 1 0 1 0 Total 6 0 1 5 7 Ghulam Ahmed 1955/6† New Zealand India 1 0 0 1 1958/9 West Indies India 2 0 2 0 Total 3 0 2 1 8 Polly Umrigar 1955/6 New Zealand India 4 2 0 2 1956/7 Australia India 3 0 2 1 1958/9† West Indies India 1 0 0 1 Total 8 2 2 4 9 Hemu Adhikari 1958/9† West Indian India 1 0 0 1 Total 1 0 0 1 10 Datta Gaekwad 1959 England England 4 0 4 0 Total 4 0 4 0 11 Pankaj Roy 1959† England England 1 0 1 0 Total 1 0 1 0 12 Gulabrai Ramchand 1959/60 Australia India 5 1 2 2 Total 5 1 2 2 13 Nari Contractor 1960/1 Pakistan India 5 0 0 5 1961/2 England India 5 2 0 3 1961/2† West Indies West Indies 2 0 2 0 Total 12 2 2 8 14 Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi 1961/2 West Indies West Indies 3 0 3 0 1963/4 England India 5 0 0 5 1964/5 Australia India 3 1 1 1 1964/5 New Zealand India 4 1 0 3 1966/7 West Indies India 3 0 2 1 1967 England England 3 0 3 0 1967/8 Australia Australia 3 0 3 0 1967/8 New Zealand New Zealand 4 3 1 0 1969/70 New Zealand India 3 1 1 1 1969/70 Australia India 5 1 3 1 1974/5 West Indies India 4 2 2 0 Total 40 9 19 12 15 Chandu Borde 1967/8† Australia Australia 1 0 1 0 Total 1 0 1 0 16 Ajit Wadekar 1970/1 West Indies West Indies 5 1 0 4 1971 England England 3 1 0 2 1972/3 England India 5 2 1 2 1974 England England 3 0 3 0 Total 16 4 4 8 17 Srinivas Venkataraghavan 1974/5† West Indies India 1 0 1 0 1979 England England 4 0 1 3 Total 5 0 2 3 18 Sunil Gavaskar 1975/6† New Zealand New Zealand 1 1 0 0 1978/9 West Indies India 6 1 0 5 1979/80 Australia India 6 2 0 4 1979/80 Pakistan India 5 2 0 3 1980/1 Australia Australia 3 1 1 1 1980/1 New Zealand New Zealand 3 0 1 2 1981/2 England India 6 1 0 5 1982 England England 3 0 1 2 1982/3 Sri Lanka India 1 0 0 1 1982/3 Pakistan Pakistan 6 0 3 3 1984/5 Pakistan Pakistan 2 0 0 2 1984/5 England India 5 1 2 2 Total 47 9 8 30 19 Bishan Singh Bedi 1975/6 New Zealand New Zealand 2 0 1 1 1975/6 West Indies West Indies 4 1 2 1 1976/7 New Zealand India 3 2 0 1 1976/7 England India 5 1 3 1 1977/8 Australia Australia 5 2 3 0 1978/9 Pakistan Pakistan 3 0 2 1 Total 22 6 11 5 20 Gundappa Viswanath 1979/80† Pakistan India 1 0 0 1 1979/1980 England India 1 0 1 0 Total 2 0 1 1 21 Kapil Dev 1982/3 West Indies West Indies 5 0 2 3 1983/4 Pakistan India 3 0 0 3 1983/4 West Indies India 6 0 3 3 1985 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 0 1 2 1985/6 Australia Australia 3 0 0 3 1986 England England 3 2 0 1 1986/7 Australia India 3 0 0 2[3] 1986/7 Sri Lanka India 3 2 0 1 1986/7 Pakistan India 5 0 1 4 Total 34 4 7 23[3] 22 Dilip Vengsarkar 1987/8 West Indies India 3 0 1 2 1988/9 New Zealand India 3 2 1 0 1988/9 West Indies West Indies 4 0 3 1 Total 10 2 5 3 23 Ravi Shastri 1987/8† West Indies India 1 1 0 0 Total 1 1 0 0 24 Krishnamachari Srikkanth 1989/90 Pakistan Pakistan 4 0 0 4 Total 4 0 0 4 25 Mohammad Azharuddin 1989/90 New Zealand New Zealand 3 0 1 2 1990 England England 3 0 1 2 1990/1 Sri Lanka India 1 1 0 0 1991/2 Australia Australia 5 0 4 1 1992/3 Zimbabwe Zimbabwe 1 0 0 1 1992/3 South Africa South Africa 4 0 1 3 1992/3 England India 3 3 0 0 1992/3 Zimbabwe India 1 1 0 0 1993 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 1 0 2 1993/4 Sri Lanka India 3 3 0 0 1993/4 New Zealand New Zealand 1 0 0 1 1994/5 West Indies India 3 1 1 1 1995/6 New Zealand India 3 1 0 2 1996 England England 3 0 1 2 1997/8 Australia India 3 2 1 0 1998/9 Zimbabwe Zimbabwe 1 0 1 0 1998/9 New Zealand New Zealand 2 0 1 1 1998/9 Pakistan India 2 1 1 0 1998/9[4] Pakistan India 1 0 1 0 1998/9[4] Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 1 0 0 1 Total 47 14 14 19[5][6][7][8] 26 Sachin Tendulkar 1996/7 Australia India 1 1 0 0 1996/7 South Africa India 3 2 1 0 1996/7 South Africa South Africa 3 0 2 1 1996/7 West Indies West Indies 5 0 1 4 1997 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 2 0 0 2 1997/8 Sri Lanka India 3 0 0 3 1999/2000 New Zealand India 3 1 0 2 1999/2000 Australia Australia 3 0 3 0 1999/2000 South Africa India 2 0 2 0 Total 25 4 9 12 27 Sourav Ganguly 2000/1 Bangladesh Bangladesh 1 1 0 0 2000/1 Zimbabwe India 2 1 0 1 2000/1 Australia India 3 2 1 0 2001 Zimbabwe Zimbabwe 2 1 1 0 2001 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 1 2 0 2001/2 South Africa South Africa 2 0 1 1 2001/2 England India 3 1 0 2 2001/2 Zimbabwe India 2 2 0 0 2001/2 West Indies West Indies 5 1 2 2 2002 England England 4 1 1 2 2002/3 West Indies India 3 2 0 1 2002/3 New Zealand New Zealand 2 0 2 0 2003/4 New Zealand India 1 0 0 1 2003/4 Australia Australia 4 1 1 2 2003/4 Pakistan Pakistan 1 1 0 0 2004/5 Australia India 2 0 1 1 2004/5 South Africa India 2 1 0 1 2004/5 Bangladesh Bangladesh 2 2 0 0 2004/5 Pakistan India 3 1 1 1 2005/6 Zimbabwe Zimbabwe 2 2 0 0 Total 49 21 13 15 28 Rahul Dravid 2003/4† New Zealand India 1 0 0 1 2003/4† Pakistan Pakistan 2 1 1 0 2004/5† Australia India 2 1 1 0 2005/6 Sri Lanka India 2 1 0 1 2005/6 Pakistan Pakistan 3 0 1 2 2005/6 England India 3 1 1 1 2005/6 West Indies West Indies 4 1 0 3 2006/7 South Africa South Africa 3 1 2 0 2007 Bangladesh Bangladesh 2 1 0 1 2007 England England 3 1 0 2 Total 25 8 6 11 29 Virender Sehwag 2005/6† Sri Lanka India 1 1 0 0 2009† New Zealand New Zealand 1 0 0 1 2010† Bangladesh Bangladesh 1 1 0 0 2012† Australia Australia 1 0 1 0 Total 4 2 1 1 30 Anil Kumble 2007 Pakistan India 3 1 0 2 2007/8 Australia Australia 4 1 2 1 2008 South Africa India 2 0 1 1 2008 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 1 2 0 2008 Australia India 2 0 0 2 Total 14 3 5 6 31 MS Dhoni 2008† South Africa India 1 1 0 0 2008† Australia India 2 2 0 0 2008 England India 2 1 0 1 2009 New Zealand New Zealand 2 1 0 1 2009 Sri Lanka India 3 2 0 1 2010 Bangladesh Bangladesh 1 1 0 0 2010 South Africa India 2 1 1 0 2010 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 1 1 1 2010 Australia India 2 2 0 0 2010 New Zealand India 3 1 0 2 2010 South Africa South Africa 3 1 1 1 2011 West Indies West Indies 3 1 0 2 2011 England England 4 0 4 0 2011 West Indies India 3 2 0 1 2011/12 Australia Australia 3 0 3 0 2012 New Zealand India 2 2 0 0 2012/13 England India 4 1 2 1 2012/13 Australia India 4 4 0 0 2013/14 West Indies India 2 2 0 0 2013/14 South Africa South Africa 2 0 1 1 2013/14 New Zealand New Zealand 2 0 1 1 2014 England England 5 1 3 1 2014/15 Australia Australia 2 0 1 1 Total 60 27 18 15 32 Virat Kohli 2014/15† Australia Australia 2 0 1 1 2015 Bangladesh Bangladesh 1 0 0 1 2015 Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 3 2 1 0 2015/16 South Africa India 4 3 0 1 2016 West Indies West Indies 4 2 0 2 2016/17 New Zealand India 3 3 0 0 2016/17 England India 5 4 0 1 Total 22 14 2 6 Grand Total 507 136 157 214[3]
List of India national cricket captains
See also
"The Pataudi Palace, also called Ibrahim Kothi, is a former palace of the Nawabs of Pataudi, in Haryana, India."
"Rishabh Pant Personal information Full name Rishabh Rajendra Pant Born (1997-10-04) 4 October 1997 Haridwar, Uttarakhand, India Batting style Left-handed Role Wicket-keeper batsman Domestic team information Years Team 2015–present Delhi 2016–present Delhi Daredevils (squad no. 777) Career statistics Competition FC LA T20 Matches 8 3 10 Runs scored 982 42 198 Batting average 81.83 14.00 24.75 100s/50s 4/3 0/0 0/1 Top score 308 24 69 Catches/stumpings 21/1 3/1 3/– Source: CricketArchive, 29 November 2016"
Rishabh Rajendra Pant (born 4 October 1997) is an Indian cricketer who plays for Delhi.[1] He made his first-class debut on 22 October 2015 in the 2015–16 Ranji Trophy[2] and his List A debut on 23 December 2015 in the 2015–16 Vijay Hazare Trophy.[3]
"In December 2015 he was named in India's squad for the 2016 Under-19 Cricket World Cup.[4] On 1 February 2016, during the tournament, he hit an 18-ball fifty, the fastest at this level.[5]"
"On 6 February 2016, he was bought by Delhi Daredevils for Rs 1.9 crore. On the same day, he scored a century for India U-19 in the World Cup, guiding India into the semi-finals.[6]"
In January 2017 he was named in India's Twenty20 International (T20I) squad for their series against England.[7]
"Rishabh Pant moved around from city to city in his early teens to make a name for himself. He moved from Roorkee-Delhi-Rajasthan-Delhi, switched schools, moved bases in the hunt for a coach and was even thrown out of an academy once. A few years down the road, he opened the batting for India in the Under-19 World Cup in Bangladesh, smashed a record-breaking fifty against Nepal and followed it up with a ton against Namibia to help India qualify for the semi-finals. Incidentally, his century came on the same day when he was bought by Delhi Daredevils for INR 1.9 crores from a base price of Rs 10 lakhs. The 18-year-old also made his first-class debut for Delhi in October 2015, where he made a fifty in the second innings."
"In the 2016–17 season of the Ranji Trophy, in a match against Maharashtra, Pant scored 308 runs and became the third-youngest Indian and fourth overall, to score a triple century in first-class cricket.[8][9]"
"On 8 November 2016, Pant scored the fastest century in the Ranji Trophy, from just 48 balls,[10] in Delhi's match against Jharkhand.[11]"
Rishabh Pant
Baramba (Odia: ବଡ଼ମ୍ବା) or Baramba State was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. The state was founded in 1305 and had its capital in Baramba town. Its last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1950. Baramba state was made part of Cuttack district of Orissa in 1948.
"Baramba State was founded in 1305 when two villages, Sonkha and Mohuri, together with their land, were granted by the then King of Orissa, Kishore Narsingh, to the founder of the state, Hatakeshwar Rawat, in recognition for his couraegeous deeds. The original two villages have now merged into the present town of Sonkhameri.[1] The last ruler of Baramba Princely State signed the accession to the Indian Union on 1 January 1948."
Commemoration
Narrative
Travels of Marco Polo
"Italian banknote, issued in 1982, portraying Marco Polo."
"Marco Polo at DMOZ Marco Polo at the Internet Movie Database Marco Polo's house in Venice, near the church of San Giovanni Grisostomo National Geographic Marco Polo: Journey from Venice to China Works by Marco Polo at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Marco Polo at Internet Archive Works by Marco Polo at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)"
"Marco Polo Polo wearing a Tatar outfit, date of print unknown Born 1254 Venice, Republic of Venice Died 8 January 1324(1324-01-08) (aged 69–70) Venice, Republic of Venice Resting place Church of San Lorenzo 45°26′14″N 12°20′44″E﻿ / ﻿45.4373°N 12.3455°E﻿ / 45.4373; 12.3455 Nationality Venetian Occupation Merchant Known for The Travels of Marco Polo Spouse(s) Donata Badoer Children Fantina, Bellela and Moretta Parent(s) Mother: Nicole Anna Defuseh Father: Niccolò Polo"
"Marco Polo (i/ˈmɑːrkoʊ ˈpoʊloʊ/ Italian pronunciation: [ˈmarko ˈpɔːlo]; 1254 – January 8–9, 1324)[1] was an Venetian[2][3][4] merchant traveller and citizen of the Venice Republic[5][6] whose travels are recorded in Livres des merveilles du monde (Book of the Marvels of the World, also known as The Travels of Marco Polo, c. 1300), a book that introduced Europeans to Central Asia and China."
"He learned the mercantile trade from his father and uncle, Niccolò and Maffeo, who travelled through Asia and met Kublai Khan. In 1269, they returned to Venice to meet Marco for the first time. The three of them embarked on an epic journey to Asia, returning after 24 years to find Venice at war with Genoa; Marco was imprisoned and dictated his stories to a cellmate. He was released in 1299, became a wealthy merchant, married, and had three children. He died in 1324 and was buried in the church of San Lorenzo in Venice."
Map of Marco Polo's travels
A miniature from Il Milione.
"A page from Il Milione, from a manuscript believed to date between 1298–1299."
Myth
"Mahabhairav Temple Mahabhairab Temple, Tezpur. Geography Coordinates 26°38′3″N 92°47′47″E﻿ / ﻿26.63417°N 92.79639°E﻿ / 26.63417; 92.79639Coordinates: 26°38′3″N 92°47′47″E﻿ / ﻿26.63417°N 92.79639°E﻿ / 26.63417; 92.79639 Country India State/province Assam District Sonitpur History and governance Website www.mahabhairab.org"
"The ancient Mahabhairav Temple is located at a hillock on the northern part of Tezpur town, Assam. This temple is believed to have been established by king Bana in the pre-historical times.[1] This Shiva temple was originally built of stone but the present one was renovated and built with concrete. During the Ahom rule, the kings especially of the Tungkhungiya dynasty donated large area of Devottar land to the Temple and pujaris and Paiks were appointed to look after the temple. The responsibility of management was in the hands of a Borthakur. The temple is now managed by the Government through a managing committee headed by the District Deputy Commissioner. Shivaratri is celebrated in the temple with big festivity and people from all over the country visit it. The Shivratri mela (Carnival ) during the Shivratri week is very famous all over Assam. Bhang (an Indian drug) laddoos, sold as prasad (offerings of the Lord ) are in very much demand. The mela is smaller than that in Sivsagar, but is nevertheless famous.This temple also conducts marriage ceremonies. People usually free pigeons in this temple as an offering, it is a wonderful sight to see hundreds of pigeons in this place."
The temple was built for worshiping Lord Shiva by King Banasura. The Shiva linga of this temple is said to be made of 'Living Stone' which grows over slowly by the years.Some people believe that Bana obtained his boon while worshipping in this temple.
"The archeologists believe that the temple was built during 8th to 10th century A.D. by the kings of the Salasthamba dynasty. That originally there was a stone temple is evident from the huge pillars scattered all around the temple. But the original temple was destroyed during the Islamic invasions of the Middle Ages.[2] It was however, rebuilt by successive kings and rulers, until it was heavily damaged by the catastrophic earthquake of 1897.[1][3][4]"
"The present structure of the temple was built sometime in the early part of the present century by a devotee and monk Sri Swayambar Bharati, popularly known as Naga Baba.[1] After a few years, another monk Sri Mahadeo Bharati built the ""Nat Mandir"" close to the temple. After a few years another devotee built the cement-concrete idols of Ganesh and Hanuman as ""Dwarpaals"" in front of the temple. Since then the developmental works of the temple had been somewhat sluggish although not completely stopped, one major work being the exquisitely curved ornamental frontispiece of the main entrance gate of the temple by a local artist, Sri Joy Das.[3]"
Mahabhairav Temple
"Maa Pitambara (Bagalamukhi) Temple, Amleshwar Name Devanagari माँ पीताम्बरा बगलामुखी मंदिर (अमलेश्वर) Geography Country India State Chhattisgarh District Durg Locale Amleshwar Culture Primary deity Bagalamukhi Important festivals Navratri History and governance Date built 16 May 2005 Website https://www.facebook.com/maapitambarakripa"
"Maa Pitambara Temple - hindu temple of mahavidya goddess Bagalamukhi located in Amleshwar (south of Raipur) town of Chhattisgarh state in India, approx 15 km from Raipur Airport and approx 25 km from Durg. It was established by Param Pujaya Shri Shri Pitambara Pithadhishwar Yogiraj Youdhishthir Ji Maharaj. It is accessible by train, approximately 5 km from Raipur Railway Station."
Architecture
"Uttara Swami Malai Temple Sree Swaminatha Swami Temple at the Malai Mandir Complex in Delhi Uttara Swami Malai Temple Location in Delhi Name Proper name Uttara Swami Malai Temple Geography Coordinates 28°34′3″N 77°9′56″E﻿ / ﻿28.56750°N 77.16556°E﻿ / 28.56750; 77.16556Coordinates: 28°34′3″N 77°9′56″E﻿ / ﻿28.56750°N 77.16556°E﻿ / 28.56750; 77.16556 Country India Location R. K. Puram, New Delhi [1] Culture Primary deity Sree Swaminatha Swami Architecture Architectural styles Tamil Architecture History and governance Date built Jun 7, 1973 Creator Sri Swaminatha Swami Seva Samaj"
"Uttara Swami Malai Temple (Tamil: உத்தர சுவாமி மலை கோவில்), popularly known as Malai Mandir (literally, Hill Temple), is a Hindu temple complex in New Delhi located on the affluent Palam Marg primarily dedicated to Lord Swaminatha (more commonly known as Lord Murugan), most revered by the religious Hindus of Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada community in the city.[2][3]"
"The main temple within the complex, formally called Sree Swaminatha Swami Temple, houses the sanctum sanctorum of Lord Swaminatha. It is situated atop a small hillock in Sector-7 R.K. Puram and overlooking Vasant Vihar in South West Delhi. This is in keeping with the tradition of locating Murugan temples on hills. The sign outside the main temple is written in Tamil, proclaiming Lord Swaminatha's motto, ""Yaamirukka Bayamain"" meaning ""Why fear when I am there?"". The temple is built entirely of granite, and is reminiscent of the Chola style Tamil Architecture."
"In the Hindu religion, the peacock is considered Lord Swaminatha's mount or vahana. Accordingly, the temple has adopted a peacock as its pet. This peacock can be seen and heard among the trees and foliage within the temple compound.People from various backgrounds visit the temple ."
"Sep 8, 1965 The foundation stone for the temple is laid by M. Bhakthavatsalam, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, at a function held under the presidency of Sri Lal Bahadur Shastri, then Prime Minister of India. Jun 7, 1973 The main temple for Lord Swaminatha - Sree Swaminatha Swami Temple - is consecrated and a Mahakumbhabhishekham performed. Jun 13, 1990 The temples for Sree Karpaga Vinayakar, Sree Sundareswarar and Devi Meenakshi are consecrated and Mahakumbhabhishekhams performed. A Jeeranoddharana Kumbhabhishekham for the Lord Swaminatha temple is also performed on the same day. Jul 7, 1995 The Navagraha temple (nine planets), along with a small temple for Idumban Swami, is consecrated and Kumbhabhishekham performed. Nov 9, 1997 The Adi Sankara Hall is inaugurated. Jun 27, 2001 The third Punaruddharana, Ashtabandhana and Swarna-Rajatha Bandhana Mahakumbhabhishekham of the temples are performed by H.H. Kanchi Kamakoti Peethadhipati Sri Jayendra Saraswati Swamigal. H.H. Sri Vijayendra Saraswati Swamigal also participates in the yagna pooja on the night of June 25, 2001."
Architectural features
Decorative features
Special Feature
Chakresvara Shiva temple Chakresvara Shiva temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′27″N 85°50′12″E﻿ / ﻿20.24083°N 85.83667°E﻿ / 20.24083; 85.83667Coordinates: 20°14′27″N 85°50′12″E﻿ / ﻿20.24083°N 85.83667°E﻿ / 20.24083; 85.83667 Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneswar Culture Primary deity lord Shiva Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 10-11th century A.D.
"Chakresvara Shiva temple is a living Hindu temple built in 10-11 AD dedicated to Lord Shiva located at Hatiasuni lane, Rajarani Colony, Bhubaneswar, Orissa. The deity, lingam is within a circular yonipitha in side the sanctum. The temple is surrounded by private residential buildings in eastern and northern side and chakresvara tank in the west. It is The temple is of great significance as various rituals like Sivaratri, Diwali, and Sankranti are observed here. Also this temple serves as a purpose of a sacred place for Thread ceremony, Rudrabhiseka, Chandrabhiseka."
"The temple stands on a low platform. On plan, the temple has a vimana and a renovated frontal porch. The vimana(shrine) is pancharatha and the frontal porch. On elevation, the vimana is of rekha order extends from pabhaga to kalasa. From bottom to the top, the temple has a bada, gandi and mastaka. With three-fold divisions of the bad the temple has a trianga bada. At the bottom, the pabhaga has four base mouldings of khura, kumbha, pata and basanta."
"In the lalatabimba, four-armed Lord Ganesha which is found in place of the usual Gaja-laxmi. It is an exception of the temples of Bhubaneswar. Another departure is noticed at Kalarahanga where the lalatabimba is occupied by images of both Ganesha and Saraswati. In front of the temple, there are images of Parvati and Kartikeya and an amlaka stone in the southern side of the temple."
"The doorjambs are decorated with three vertical bands of scroll works like puspa sakha, nara, sakha and patra sakha from exterior to interior. At the lalatabimba there is a four armed Ganesha within a niche seated over his mount mouse. At the base of the doorjamb, there are dvarapala niches on either sides. The niches enshrine two armed Saivite dwrapala holding trident in their right hands and varada in left hands. The architrave above the doorjamb is beautifully carced with Navagrahas within the niches. Surya holds lotus in his hands, Rahu holds half moon and Ketu with a serpent tail."
Chakreshvari Siva Temple
Architecture
Etymology
Meenakshiamman Temple tower in Madurai
"Gopuram (Gopura (singular)) is a monumental tower, usually ornate, at the entrance of any temple, especially in Southern India. This forms a prominent feature of Koils, Hindu temples of the Dravidian style.[1] They are topped by the kalasam, a bulbous stone finial. They function as gateways through the walls that surround the temple complex.[2]"
"The gopuram's origins can be traced back to early structures of the Tamil kings Cholas, Cheras, Pandyas and Pallavas ; and by the twelfth century, under the Pandya rulers, these gateways became a dominant feature of a temple's outer appearance, eventually overshadowing the inner sanctuary which became obscured from view by the gopuram's colossal size.[3] It also dominated the inner sanctum in amount of ornamentation. Often a shrine has more than one gopuram.[4] They also appear in architecture outside India, especially Khmer architecture, as at Angkor Wat."
"A koil may have multiple gopurams, typically constructed into multiple walls in tiers around the main shrine. The temple's walls are typically square with the outer most wall having gopuras. The sanctum sanctorum and its towering roof (the central deity's shrine) is also called the vimanam."
The Tamil derivation is from the two words: கோ (kō) and புறம் (puram) meaning 'king' and 'exterior' respectively.[5] It originates from the Sangam age when it was known as ஓங்கு நிலை வாயில் (ōnggu nilai vāyil) meaning 'imperishable gateway'.[6]
"Siegfried Lienhard considers this Tamil derivation but offers a new derivation from the Sanskrit word, गोपुर (gopura), is often translated as ""town gate"". Separately, it consists of two words go, with the possible meanings of ""cow"" or ""sky"", and pura, meaning city.[7]"
Detail of a gopuram at Chennai
"A gopuram is usually rectangular in form with ground-level wooden doors, often richly decorated, providing access. Above is the tapering gopuram, divided into many storeys which diminish in size as the gopuram tower narrows. Usually the tower is topped with a barrel vaulted roof with a finial.[3] The form began rather modestly in the 10th century, as at Shore Temple, Mahabalipuram, with the 11th century Brihadeeswarar Temple in Thanjavur marking a crucial step forward with two multi-storey gopurams from that period, much larger than any earlier ones, though much smaller than the main tower (vimana) of the temple. The four gopurams of the Thillai Nataraja Temple, Chidambaram are important early examples, begun in the mid-13th century but completed over a longer period.[8] Gopurams are exquisitely decorated with sculpture and carvings and painted with a variety of themes derived from the Hindu mythology, particularly those associated with the presiding deity of the temple where the gopuram is located. Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, Tamil Nadu is the tallest Gopuram in the world."
Approach
Surrounding
Tradition & legends
Bata Mahadeva. (Muktesvara Siva) Bata Mahadeva. (Muktesvara Siva) Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′45″N 85°50′14″E﻿ / ﻿20.24583°N 85.83722°E﻿ / 20.24583; 85.83722Coordinates: 20°14′45″N 85°50′14″E﻿ / ﻿20.24583°N 85.83722°E﻿ / 20.24583; 85.83722 Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneswar Elevation 18 m (59 ft) Culture Primary deity lord Siva Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 15-16th century A.D.
"Bata Mahadeva. (Muktesvara Siva) is a temple of Hindu god siva. This is one of the oldest temple in Bhubaneswar (The Temple city of India), a well known heritage place and capital of Orissa."
"It is located at the middle of the Bindusagar road, leading from Kedar-Gouri Lane to Lingaraja temple. It is a living temple and facing towards north. The deity enshrined here is a Siva lingam with a circular yoni pitha made of sandstone."
According to local legend when Mahadeva visited Ekamra Nagari he took rest at this place. Since it is located at the middle of the road it is known as Bata Mahadeva. Ownership: This temple is not under any private ownership and comes under public property. This temple is under the control of Lingaraja temple administration.
"The temple is surrounded by road on all its four sides and Ananta Vasudeva temple is in the east at a distance of 15.00 m, Bindusagar in the west is at a distance of 10.00 m, Lingaraja temple in the south is at a distance of 100 m."
Bata Mahadeva
Significance
Paschimesvara Siva Temple Paschimesvara Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′46″N 85°50′02″E﻿ / ﻿20.24611°N 85.83389°E﻿ / 20.24611; 85.83389Coordinates: 20°14′46″N 85°50′02″E﻿ / ﻿20.24611°N 85.83389°E﻿ / 20.24611; 85.83389 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 18 m (59 ft) Culture Primary deity Mahishamardini Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 8th century A.D.
"The Paschimesvara Siva Temple is located in Badu Sahi, Old town Bhubaneswar- the temple city of India. This temple dates back to the 8th century AD, and belongs to the Bhauma Epoch. The superstructure of the temple has collapsed since long. However, information about the temple can be gathered from the stylistic features of the detached sculptures of Karttikeya, Ganesa,Parvati and Narsimha. What is present now, is a lingam over a heap of stones.A flight of steps leading to the lingam from the west suggest that the temple originally faced the west."
"It is situated on the south-western embankment of the Bindusagar lake, hence the locals call the shrine Paschim(meaning west)esvara Siva. The geographical coordinates of the temple are Lat-20°14'46, Long-85°50'02. The elevation is 61 ft."
"Information about the historic and cultural significance of the temple can be gathered from the stylistic features of the detached sculptures of Karttikeya, Ganesa,Parvati and Narsimha. It is presently a living temple. Local traditions attribute the temple to the Kesharis(Somavamsis). Saivite rituals like Sivaratri and Sankranti are observed."
Features
Location
Shopping Malls
"Shivaji Place District Centre is a commercial centre located in Rajouri Garden, West Delhi, India. The district centre is currently under development and only five shopping malls are currently operational."
"The Shivaji Place District Centre is located in the heart of Rajouri Garden in west Delhi. It is connected by the Ring Road and Najafgarh Road and it is opposite the Rajouri Garden Market. The catchment of the district centre comprises the prime residential localities of Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden, Shivaji Enclave, Shivaji Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Mansarovar Garden, Kirti Nagar, Paschim Vihar and Patel Nagar.[1] The district centre is also on the Blue Line of the Delhi Metro.[2]"
"The Shivaji Place District Centre is spread over 65 acres (260,000 m2). It is planned that the district centre will consist of eleven shopping malls along with commercial and office buildings, a five star hotel and a Nigam Habitat Centre similar to the India Habitat Centre. Currently, there are five functional malls: City Square, TDI Mall, TDI Paragon, Shopper's Stop and West Gate Mall. Additionally, the area also has a Delhi Metro station, a DTC bus terminal, a police station, a telephone exchange, MCD office, two petrol pumps, and the Vishal Cinema. There will be adequate parking both at the periphery of the development as well as underground parking and also large pedestrian plazas and extensively landscaped areas.[3]"
TDI Mall in Shivaji Place District Centre
"City Square is a shopping mall located in Shivaji District Centre. It was developed by the MGF Group. The main feature of this mall is a large StanMax Department Store. The mall also includes a Nike store,Converse, Hazoorilal, SnowWhite, Woodland and a KFC.[4]"
TDI Paragon Mall in Shivaji Place District Centre
Shivaji Place
Exits
"The DND Flyway (Delhi Noida Direct Flyway) is an eight-laned 9.2 km (5.7 mi) [1] access controlled tolled expressway which connects Delhi to Noida, an industrial suburb area. It was built and is maintained by The Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd promoted the Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS)."
"The project included the construction of a flyover at Ashram Chowk which was handed over to the Public Works Department for maintenance.[2] A 552.5 meter bridge over the Yamuna river was constructed at a cost of ₹4.08 billion (US$60.6 million) and was completed by February 2001.[3][4] The NTBCL in July 2006, started the construction of an extension to link Mayur Vihar directly to the DND Flyway. The road was opened to traffic in both directions with effect from 19 January 2008.[5]"
"State Location Destinations Uttar Pradesh Noida Sector 22, Noida Film City, Sector 18, Greater Noida, Noida Extension Delhi Mayur Vihar Mayur Vihar Delhi Delhi ISBT, Ring Road, Maharani Bagh"
"Ezra Meeker Meeker in 1921 1st Mayor of Puyallup, Washington In office August 1890 – January 1891 Preceded by new office Succeeded by James Mason In office January 1892 – January 1893 Preceded by James Mason Succeeded by L.W. Hill 1st Postmaster of Puyallup, Washington Territory In office 1877–1882 Preceded by new office Succeeded by Marion Meeker Personal details Born Ezra Manning Meeker (1830-12-29)December 29, 1830 Butler County, Ohio, United States Died December 3, 1928(1928-12-03) (aged 97) Seattle, Washington, United States Resting place Woodbine Cemetery, Puyallup, Washington 47°10′14″N 122°18′8″W﻿ / ﻿47.17056°N 122.30222°W﻿ / 47.17056; -122.30222 Citizenship United States Political party Republican Spouse(s) Eliza Jane Sumner (m. 1851–w. 1909) Children 6 Residence Meeker Mansion, Puyallup Occupation Farmer Signature Nickname(s) Uncle Ezra, Father Ezra"
"Accessibility refers to the design of products, devices, services, or environments for people who experience disabilities.[1] The concept of accessible design and practice of accessible development ensures both ""direct access"" (i.e. unassisted) and ""indirect access"" meaning compatibility with a person's assistive technology (for example, computer screen readers)."
Accessibility
Rulers
"Kharsawan State, also spelt Kharsua or kharaswan,[1] was a princely state in India during the era of the British Raj.[2] The state had a privy purse of 33,000 Rs. and was one of the nine Chota Nagpur States under the authority of the governor of Bengal Presidency. It was one of the Odia Princely states of India during the period of the British Raj and the major language spoken in the area is Odia."
"The capital was the city of Kharsawan and the former area of Kharsawan State is now a part of Jharkhand, where its district is named Seraikela Kharsawan district. Kumar Aditya Narayan Singh Deo and his father Maharaj Kumar Rudra Pratap Singh Deo appreciated the name change of the district."
"Kharsawan estate was founded in 1650. The rulers of Kharsawan are descended from Kunwar Bikram Singh of Porahat, the first ruler of neighbouring Seraikela State. His second son, Kunwar Padam Singh was the founder of Kharsawan.[3] In 1857 Kharsawan estate was recognized as a state."
"In 1912 Kharsawan came under the authority of the province of Bihar and Orissa, which had been carved from the eastern districts of Bengal. In 1936 the state was placed under the authority of the Orissa Province. Saraikela, along with 24 other princely states of the Eastern States Agency, acceded to the Government of India on 1 January 1948, with a will to merge the princely state with Orissa province of the Indian Republic."
"As a result, both Kharsawan and Saraikela princely states were merged with Orissa in 1948. On 1 January 1948 itself, the tribals of these two princely states, who were in a majority, revolted against the merger with Orissa. This was supported by Patayet Sahib Maharajkumar Bhoopendra Narayan Singh Deo, third son of HH Raja Aditya Pratap Singh Deo, as a result of which he was imprisoned to ensure the popular movement died down. The central government appointed a commission under Mr. Baudkar to look into the matter. On the basis of the Baudkar commission report, Saraikela and Kharsawan princely states were merged with Bihar on 18 May 1948. These two princely states became part of Jharkhand when the state was separated from Bihar on 15 November 2000. From 18 May 1948 onward, many non-tribal Oriyas of the districts of Saraikela Kharsawan, East Singhbhum, and West Singhbhum have migrated and settled permanently in Orissa."
"Former rulers bore the title of 'Thakur' until 1917. They belonged to the Rathore dynasty of Rajputs. The title of Raja was granted to Kharsawan rulers in 1902, beginning with Raja Ram Chandra Singh Deo.[4] The present head of the royal family is Raja Pradeep Chandra Singh Deo."
Rajas
Rulers
"Pal Lahara (Odia: ପାଲ ଲହଡ଼ା; Hindi: पाल लहारा), was a Rajput princely state in what is today India during the British Raj. It had its capital at Pal Lahara.[1]"
"According to tradition, the first ruler was a Suryavanshi Rajput of Dharanagar named Santosh Pal. While returning from a pilgrimage to Puri he crossed this territory and made peace between two local tribal groups. As a result, Santosh Pal was elected as ruler by the Sabara people, one of the tribes involved in the conflict.[2]"
"The rulers of the Pal Lahara princely state claimed to be descendants of Raja Bhoj of Dhar, from the ancient Rajput Paramara dynasty.[3]"
.... - .... Balbhadra Pal .... - .... Kandrup Pal .... - .... Jagannath Pal .... - 1778 Mandhata Pal 1778 - 1783 Muni Pal (died 1778) 1783 - 1815 Arnapura (f) (died 1815) 1815 - 1825 Nanda Pal 1825 - 1859 Badyanath Pal 1859 - 1874 Chakradhar Pal (born 1831 - see below ) (personal style Raja Bahadur from 1868)
1874 - 1888 Chakradhar Pal (see above - died 1888) 30 August 1888 - 30 July 1912 Duti Krishna Pal (born 1884 - died 1912) 30 August 1888 - 1908 .... -Regent 1911 - 18 April 1913 .... -Regent 18 April 1913 - 15 August 1947 Sarat Chandra Muni Pal (born 1903 - d. ....) 18 April 1913 - 1925 .... -Regent [4]
Autobiographical elements
Characters
Early years
Farewell readings
First visit to the United States
Influence and legacy
Journalism and early novels
Last years
Literary style
Middle years
Notable works
Philanthropy
Reception
Religious views
Second visit to the United States
Social commentary
"His success as a novelist continued. The young Queen Victoria read both Oliver Twist and Pickwick, staying up until midnight to discuss them.[55] Nicholas Nickleby (1838–39), The Old Curiosity Shop (1840–41) and, finally, his first historical novel, Barnaby Rudge: A Tale of the Riots of 'Eighty, as part of the Master Humphrey's Clock series (1840–41), were all published in monthly instalments before being made into books.[56]"
"In 1842, Dickens and his wife made their first trip to the United States and Canada. At this time Georgina Hogarth, another sister of Catherine, joined the Dickens household, now living at Devonshire Terrace, Marylebone, to care for the young family they had left behind.[58] She remained with them as housekeeper, organiser, adviser, and friend until Dickens's death in 1870.[59] Dickens modeled the character of Agnes Wickfield after Georgina and Mary.[60]"
"He described his impressions in a travelogue, American Notes for General Circulation. Dickens includes in Notes a powerful condemnation of slavery, which he had attacked as early as The Pickwick Papers, correlating the emancipation of the poor in England with the abolition of slavery abroad[61] citing newspaper accounts of runaway slaves disfigured by their masters. In spite of the abolitionist sentiments gleaned from his trip to America, some modern commentators have pointed out inconsistencies in Dickens's views on racial inequality, for instance, he has been criticized for his subsequent acquiescence in Governor Eyre's harsh crackdown during the 1860s Morant Bay rebellion in Jamaica and his failure to join other British progressives in condemning it.[62] From Richmond, Virginia, Dickens returned to Washington, D.C., and started a trek westward to St. Louis, Missouri. While there, he expressed a desire to see an American prairie before returning east. A group of 13 men then set out with Dickens to visit Looking Glass Prairie, a trip 30 miles into Illinois."
"After living briefly in Italy (1844), Dickens travelled to Switzerland (1846), where he began work on Dombey and Son (1846–48). This and David Copperfield (1849–50) mark a significant artistic break in Dickens's career as his novels became more serious in theme and more carefully planned than his early works."
"The popularity he gained caused a shift in his self-perception according to critic Kate Flint, who writes that he ""found himself a cultural commodity, and its circulation had passed out his control"", causing him to become interested in and delve into themes of public and personal personas in the next novels.[66] She writes that he assumed a role of ""influential commentator"", publicly and in his fiction, evident in his next few books.[66]"
"In May 1846 Angela Burdett Coutts, heir to the Coutts banking fortune, approached Dickens about setting up a home for the redemption of fallen women of the working class. Coutts envisioned a home that would replace the punitive regimes of existing institutions with a reformative environment conducive to education and proficiency in domestic household chores. After initially resisting, Dickens eventually founded the home, named ""Urania Cottage"", in the Lime Grove section of Shepherds Bush, which he managed for ten years,[70] setting the house rules, reviewing the accounts and interviewing prospective residents.[71] Emigration and marriage were central to Dickens's agenda for the women on leaving Urania Cottage, from which it is estimated that about 100 women graduated between 1847 and 1859.[72]"
"As a young man Dickens expressed a distaste for certain aspects of organized religion. In 1836, in a pamphlet titled Sunday Under Three Heads, he defended the people's right to pleasure, opposing a plan to prohibit games on Sundays. ""Look into your churches- diminished congregations and scanty attendance. People have grown sullen and obstinate, and are becoming disgusted with the faith which condemns them to such a day as this, once in every seven. They display their feeling by staying away [from church]. Turn into the streets [on a Sunday] and mark the rigid gloom that reigns over everything around""[73]"
Dickens started to write David Copperfield in 1848. It was published between 1849 and 1850. Scholars consider it as Dickens' veiled autobiography with the title character modeled after the author himself. It was Dickens' personal favorite among his own novels.
"Ellen Ternan, 1858"
"In 1857, Dickens hired professional actresses for the play The Frozen Deep, written by him and his protégé, Wilkie Collins. Dickens fell in love with one of the actresses, Ellen Ternan, and this passion was to last the rest of his life.[86] Dickens was 45 and Ternan 18 when he made the decision, which went strongly against Victorian convention, to separate from his wife, Catherine, in 1858—divorce was still unthinkable for someone as famous as he was. When Catherine left, never to see her husband again, she took with her one child, leaving the other children to be raised by her sister Georgina who chose to stay at Gad's Hill.[59]"
At his desk in 1858
"Major works soon followed, including A Tale of Two Cities (1859) and Great Expectations (1861), which were resounding successes. During this time he was also the publisher, editor, and a major contributor to the journals Household Words (1850–1859) and All the Year Round (1858–1870).[95]"
After the Staplehurst rail crash
"On 9 June 1865, while returning from Paris with Ellen Ternan, Dickens was involved in the Staplehurst rail crash. The train's first seven carriages plunged off a cast iron bridge that was under repair. The only first-class carriage to remain on the track was the one in which Dickens was travelling. Before rescuers arrived, Dickens tended and comforted the wounded and the dying with a flask of brandy and a hat refreshed with water, and saved some lives. Before leaving, he remembered the unfinished manuscript for Our Mutual Friend, and he returned to his carriage to retrieve it.[106] Dickens later used this experience as material for his short ghost story, ""The Signal-Man"", in which the central character has a premonition of his own death in a rail crash. He also based the story on several previous rail accidents, such as the Clayton Tunnel rail crash of 1861. Dickens managed to avoid an appearance at the inquest to avoid disclosing that he had been travelling with Ternan and her mother, which would have caused a scandal.[107]"
"Between 1868 and 1869, Dickens gave a series of ""farewell readings"" in England, Scotland, and Ireland, beginning on 6 October. He managed, of a contracted 100 readings, to deliver 75 in the provinces, with a further 12 in London.[108] As he pressed on he was affected by giddiness and fits of paralysis. He suffered a stroke on 18 April 1869 in Chester.[111] He collapsed on 22 April 1869, at Preston in Lancashire, and on doctor's advice, the tour was cancelled.[112] After further provincial readings were cancelled, he began work on his final novel, The Mystery of Edwin Drood. It was fashionable in the 1860s to 'do the slums' and, in company, Dickens visited opium dens in Shadwell, where he witnessed an elderly addict known as ""Laskar Sal"", who formed the model for the ""Opium Sal"" subsequently featured in his mystery novel, Edwin Drood.[113]"
"On 8 June 1870, Dickens suffered another stroke at his home after a full day's work on Edwin Drood. He never regained consciousness, and the next day, five years to the day after the Staplehurst rail crash, he died at Gad's Hill Place. Biographer Claire Tomalin has suggested Dickens was actually in Peckham when he suffered the stroke, and his mistress Ellen Ternan and her maids had him taken back to Gad's Hill so the public would not know the truth about their relationship.[116] Contrary to his wish to be buried at Rochester Cathedral ""in an inexpensive, unostentatious, and strictly private manner,""[117] he was laid to rest in the Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey. A printed epitaph circulated at the time of the funeral reads: ""To the Memory of Charles Dickens (England's most popular author) who died at his residence, Higham, near Rochester, Kent, 9 June 1870, aged 58 years. He was a sympathiser with the poor, the suffering, and the oppressed; and by his death, one of England's greatest writers is lost to the world.""[118] His last words were: ""On the ground"", in response to his sister-in-law Georgina's request that he lie down.[119][nb 1]"
"Dickens preferred the style of the 18th century picaresque novels that he found in abundance on his father's shelves. According to Ackroyd, other than these, perhaps the most important literary influence on him was derived from the fables of The Arabian Nights.[122]"
"Dickens's biographer Claire Tomalin regards him as the greatest creator of character in English fiction after Shakespeare.[127] Dickensian characters are amongst the most memorable in English literature, especially so because of their typically whimsical names. The likes of Ebenezer Scrooge, Tiny Tim, Jacob Marley, Bob Cratchit, Oliver Twist, The Artful Dodger, Fagin, Bill Sikes, Pip, Miss Havisham, Sydney Carton, Charles Darnay, David Copperfield, Mr. Micawber, Abel Magwitch, Daniel Quilp, Samuel Pickwick, Wackford Squeers, and Uriah Heep are so well known as to be part and parcel of British culture, and in some cases have passed into ordinary language: a scrooge, for example, is a miser."
"Authors frequently draw their portraits of characters from people they have known in real life. David Copperfield is regarded by many as a veiled autobiography of Dickens. The scenes of interminable court cases and legal arguments in Bleak House reflect Dickens's experiences as a law clerk and court reporter, and in particular his direct experience of the law's procedural delay during 1844 when he sued publishers in Chancery for breach of copyright.[134] Dickens's father was sent to prison for debt, and this became a common theme in many of his books, with the detailed depiction of life in the Marshalsea prison in Little Dorrit resulting from Dickens's own experiences of the institution.[135] Lucy Stroughill, a childhood sweetheart, may have affected several of Dickens's portraits of girls such as Little Em'ly in David Copperfield and Lucie Manette in A Tale of Two Cities.[136][nb 2] Dickens may have drawn on his childhood experiences, but he was also ashamed of them and would not reveal that this was where he gathered his realistic accounts of squalor. Very few knew the details of his early life until six years after his death, when John Forster published a biography on which Dickens had collaborated. Though Skimpole brutally sends up Leigh Hunt, some critics have detected in his portrait features of Dickens's own character, which he sought to exorcise by self-parody.[137]"
"""Charles Dickens as he appears when reading."" Wood engraving from Harper's Weekly, 7 December 1867"
"Dickens was the most popular novelist of his time,[149] and remains one of the best-known and most-read of English authors. His works have never gone out of print,[150] and have been adapted continually for the screen since the invention of cinema,[151] with at least 200 motion pictures and TV adaptations based on Dickens's works documented.[152] Many of his works were adapted for the stage during his own lifetime, and as early as 1913, a silent film of The Pickwick Papers was made.[153] He created some of the world's best-known fictional characters and is regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian era.[1]"
"Bleak House in Broadstairs, Kent, where Dickens wrote some of his novels"
"Dickens and Little Nell statue in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania"
"Dickens published more than a dozen major novels, a large number of short stories, including a number of Christmas-themed stories, a handful of plays, and several non-fiction books. Dickens's novels were initially serialised in weekly and monthly magazines, then reprinted in standard book formats."
Footnotes
"Charles Dickens Dickens in New York, 1867 Born Charles John Huffam Dickens (1812-02-07)7 February 1812 Landport, Hampshire, England, United Kingdom Died 9 June 1870(1870-06-09) (aged 58) Higham, Kent, England, United Kingdom Resting place Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey Occupation Writer Nationality British Notable works The Pickwick Papers Oliver Twist Nicholas Nickleby A Christmas Carol David Copperfield Bleak House Little Dorrit A Tale of Two Cities Great Expectations Spouse Catherine Thomson Hogarth Children Charles Dickens, Jr. Mary Dickens Kate Perugini Walter Landor Dickens Francis Dickens Alfred D'Orsay Tennyson Dickens Sydney Smith Haldimand Dickens Henry Fielding Dickens Dora Annie Dickens Edward Dickens Signature"
"Charles John Huffam Dickens (/ˈdɪkᵻnz/; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870) was an English writer and social critic. He created some of the world's best-known fictional characters and is regarded by many as the greatest novelist of the Victorian era.[1] His works enjoyed unprecedented popularity during his lifetime, and by the twentieth century critics and scholars had recognised him as a literary genius. His novels and short stories enjoy lasting popularity.[2][3]"
"Born in Portsmouth, Dickens left school to work in a factory when his father was incarcerated in a debtors' prison. Despite his lack of formal education, he edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, five novellas, hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children's rights, education, and other social reforms."
"Dickens's literary success began with the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers. Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his humour, satire, and keen observation of character and society. His novels, most published in monthly or weekly instalments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication.[4][5] The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience's reaction, and he often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback.[5] For example, when his wife's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities, Dickens improved the character with positive features.[6] His plots were carefully constructed, and he often wove elements from topical events into his narratives.[7] Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode read to them, opening up and inspiring a new class of readers.[8]"
"Dickens was regarded as the literary colossus of his age.[9] His 1843 novella, A Christmas Carol, remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre. Oliver Twist and Great Expectations are also frequently adapted, and, like many of his novels, evoke images of early Victorian London. His 1859 novel, A Tale of Two Cities, set in London and Paris, is his best-known work of historical fiction. Dickens's creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to George Orwell and G. K. Chesterton—for its realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism. On the other hand, Oscar Wilde, Henry James, and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth, loose writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism. The term Dickensian is used to describe something that is reminiscent of Dickens and his writings, such as poor social conditions or comically repulsive characters.[10]"
"Charles Dickens's birthplace, 393 Commercial Road, Portsmouth"
"2 Ordnance Terrace, Chatham, Dickens's home 1817 – May 1821[11]"
"Charles John Huffam Dickens was born on 7 February 1812, at 1 Mile End Terrace (now 393 Commercial Road), Landport in Portsea Island (Portsmouth), the second of eight children of John Dickens (1785–1851) and Elizabeth Dickens (née Barrow; 1789–1863). His father was a clerk in the Navy Pay Office and was temporarily stationed in the district. He asked Christopher Huffam,[12] rigger to His Majesty's Navy, gentleman, and head of an established firm, to act as godfather to Charles. Huffam is thought to be the inspiration for Paul Dombey, the owner of a shipping company in Dickens's eponymous Dombey and Son (1848).[12]"
"In January 1815 John Dickens was called back to London, and the family moved to Norfolk Street, Fitzrovia.[13] When Charles was four, they relocated to Sheerness, and thence to Chatham, Kent, where he spent his formative years until the age of 11. His early life seems to have been idyllic, though he thought himself a ""very small and not-over-particularly-taken-care-of boy"".[14]"
"Charles spent time outdoors but also read voraciously, including the picaresque novels of Tobias Smollett and Henry Fielding, as well as Robinson Crusoe and Gil Blas. He read and reread The Arabian Nights and the Collected Farces of Elizabeth Inchbald.[15] He retained poignant memories of childhood, helped by an excellent memory of people and events, which he used in his writing.[16] His father's brief work as a clerk in the Navy Pay Office afforded him a few years of private education, first at a dame school, and then at a school run by William Giles, a dissenter, in Chatham.[17]"
"Illustration by Fred Bernard of Dickens at work in a shoe-blacking factory after his father had been sent to the Marshalsea, published in the 1892 edition of Forster's Life of Dickens[18]"
"This period came to an end in June 1822, when John Dickens was recalled to Navy Pay Office headquarters at Somerset House, and the family—minus Charles, who stayed behind to finish his final term of work—moved to Camden Town in London.[19] The family had left Kent amidst rapidly mounting debts, and, living beyond his means,[20] John Dickens was forced by his creditors into the Marshalsea debtors' prison in Southwark, London in 1824. His wife and youngest children joined him there, as was the practice at the time. Charles, then 12 years old, boarded with Elizabeth Roylance, a family friend, at 112 College Place, Camden Town.[21] Roylance was ""a reduced [impoverished] old lady, long known to our family"", whom Dickens later immortalised, ""with a few alterations and embellishments"", as ""Mrs. Pipchin"" in Dombey and Son. Later, he lived in a back-attic in the house of an agent for the Insolvent Court, Archibald Russell, ""a fat, good-natured, kind old gentleman... with a quiet old wife"" and lame son, in Lant Street in Southwark.[22] They provided the inspiration for the Garlands in The Old Curiosity Shop.[23]"
"On Sundays—with his sister Frances, free from her studies at the Royal Academy of Music—he spent the day at the Marshalsea.[24] Dickens later used the prison as a setting in Little Dorrit. To pay for his board and to help his family, Dickens was forced to leave school and work ten-hour days at Warren's Blacking Warehouse, on Hungerford Stairs, near the present Charing Cross railway station, where he earned six shillings a week pasting labels on pots of boot blacking. The strenuous and often harsh working conditions made a lasting impression on Dickens and later influenced his fiction and essays, becoming the foundation of his interest in the reform of socio-economic and labour conditions, the rigours of which he believed were unfairly borne by the poor. He later wrote that he wondered ""how I could have been so easily cast away at such an age"".[25] As he recalled to John Forster (from The Life of Charles Dickens):"
"The Marshalsea around 1897, after it had closed"
"A few months after his imprisonment, John Dickens's paternal grandmother, Elizabeth Dickens, died and bequeathed him £450. On the expectation of this legacy, Dickens was released from prison. Under the Insolvent Debtors Act, Dickens arranged for payment of his creditors, and he and his family left Marshalsea,[27] for the home of Mrs Roylance."
"Righteous indignation stemming from his own situation and the conditions under which working-class people lived became major themes of his works, and it was this unhappy period in his youth to which he alluded in his favourite, and most autobiographical, novel, David Copperfield:[29] ""I had no advice, no counsel, no encouragement, no consolation, no assistance, no support, of any kind, from anyone, that I can call to mind, as I hope to go to heaven!""[30]"
"Dickens was eventually sent to the Wellington House Academy in Camden Town, where he remained until March 1827, having spent about two years there. He did not consider it to be a good school: ""Much of the haphazard, desultory teaching, poor discipline punctuated by the headmaster's sadistic brutality, the seedy ushers and general run-down atmosphere, are embodied in Mr. Creakle's Establishment in David Copperfield.""[30]"
"Dickens worked at the law office of Ellis and Blackmore, attorneys, of Holborn Court, Gray's Inn, as a junior clerk from May 1827 to November 1828. He was a gifted mimic and impersonated those around him: clients, lawyers, and clerks. He went to theatres obsessively—he claimed that for at least three years he went to the theatre every single day. His favourite actor was Charles Mathews, and Dickens learnt his monopolylogues, (farces in which Mathews played every character), by heart.[31] Then, having learned Gurney's system of shorthand in his spare time, he left to become a freelance reporter. A distant relative, Thomas Charlton, was a freelance reporter at Doctors' Commons, and Dickens was able to share his box there to report the legal proceedings for nearly four years.[32][33] This education was to inform works such as Nicholas Nickleby, Dombey and Son, and especially Bleak House—whose vivid portrayal of the machinations and bureaucracy of the legal system did much to enlighten the general public and served as a vehicle for dissemination of Dickens's own views regarding, particularly, the heavy burden on the poor who were forced by circumstances to ""go to law""."
"In 1830, Dickens met his first love, Maria Beadnell, thought to have been the model for the character Dora in David Copperfield. Maria's parents disapproved of the courtship and ended the relationship by sending her to school in Paris.[34]"
"In 1832, at age 20, Dickens was energetic and increasingly self-confident.[35] He enjoyed mimicry and popular entertainment, lacked a clear, specific sense of what he wanted to become, and yet knew he wanted fame. Drawn to the theatre—he became an early member of the Garrick[36]—he landed an acting audition at Covent Garden, where the manager George Bartley and the actor Charles Kemble were to see him. Dickens prepared meticulously and decided to imitate the comedian Charles Mathews, but ultimately he missed the audition because of a cold. Before another opportunity arose, he had set out on his career as a writer.[37] In 1833 he submitted his first story, ""A Dinner at Poplar Walk"", to the London periodical Monthly Magazine.[38] William Barrow, a brother of his mother, offered him a job on The Mirror of Parliament and he worked in the House of Commons for the first time early in 1832. He rented rooms at Furnival's Inn and worked as a political journalist, reporting on Parliamentary debates, and he travelled across Britain to cover election campaigns for the Morning Chronicle. His journalism, in the form of sketches in periodicals, formed his first collection of pieces, published in 1836: Sketches by Boz—Boz being a family nickname he employed as a pseudonym for some years.[39][40] Dickens apparently adopted it from the nickname ""Moses"", which he had given to his youngest brother Augustus Dickens, after a character in Oliver Goldsmith's The Vicar of Wakefield. When pronounced by anyone with a head cold, ""Moses"" became ""Boses""—later shortened to Boz.[40][41] Dickens's own name was considered ""queer"" by a contemporary critic, who wrote in 1849: ""Mr Dickens, as if in revenge for his own queer name, does bestow still queerer ones upon his fictitious creations."" He contributed to and edited journals throughout his literary career.[38] In January 1835 the Morning Chronicle launched an evening edition, under the editorship of the Chronicle's music critic, George Hogarth. Hogarth invited Dickens to contribute Street Sketches and Dickens became a regular visitor to his Fulham house, excited by Hogarth's friendship with a hero of his, Walter Scott, and enjoying the company of Hogarth's three daughters—Georgina, Mary, and nineteen-year-old Catherine.[42]"
Catherine Hogarth Dickens by Samuel Lawrence (1838)
"Dickens made rapid progress both professionally and socially. He began a friendship with William Harrison Ainsworth, the author of the highwayman novel Rookwood (1834), whose bachelor salon in Harrow Road had become the meeting place for a set that included Daniel Maclise, Benjamin Disraeli, Edward Bulwer-Lytton, and George Cruikshank. All these became his friends and collaborators, with the exception of Disraeli, and he met his first publisher, John Macrone, at the house.[43] The success of Sketches by Boz led to a proposal from publishers Chapman and Hall for Dickens to supply text to match Robert Seymour's engraved illustrations in a monthly letterpress. Seymour committed suicide after the second instalment, and Dickens, who wanted to write a connected series of sketches, hired ""Phiz"" to provide the engravings (which were reduced from four to two per instalment) for the story. The resulting story became The Pickwick Papers, and though the first few episodes were not successful, the introduction of the Cockney character Sam Weller in the fourth episode (the first to be illustrated by Phiz) marked a sharp climb in its popularity.[44] The final instalment sold 40,000 copies.[38]"
Young Charles Dickens by Daniel Maclise (1839)
"On 2 April 1836, after a one-year engagement, and between episodes two and three of The Pickwick Papers, Dickens married Catherine Thomson Hogarth (1816–1879), the daughter of George Hogarth, editor of the Evening Chronicle.[47] They were married in St. Luke's Church,[48] Chelsea, London. After a brief honeymoon in Chalk in Kent the couple returned to lodgings at Furnival's Inn.[49] The first of their ten children, Charley, was born in January 1837, and a few months later the family set up home in Bloomsbury at 48 Doughty Street, London, (on which Charles had a three-year lease at £80 a year) from 25 March 1837 until December 1839.[47][50] Dickens's younger brother Frederick and Catherine's 17-year-old sister Mary, moved in with them. Dickens became very attached to Mary, and she died in his arms after a brief illness in 1837. Unusually for Dickens, as a consequence of his shock, he stopped working, and he and Kate stayed at a little farm on Hampstead Heath for a fortnight. Dickens idealised Mary- the character he fashioned after her, Rose Maylie, he found he could not now kill, as he had planned, in his fiction[51] and according to Ackroyd he drew on memories of her for his later descriptions of Little Nell and Florence Dombey.[52] His grief was so great that he was unable to meet the deadline for the June instalment of Pickwick Papers and had to cancel the Oliver Twist instalment that month as well.[46] The time in Hampstead was the occasion for a growing bond between Dickens and John Forster to develop and Forster soon became his unofficial business manager, and the first to read his work.[53]"
Age of Radhanath
Age of Sarala Yuga
Age of Upendra Bhanja
Children's literature
Drama/Plays
Notes
Novelists
Popular science
Post Colonial Age
Short Story
Women's Writings and Feminism
"This is a list of notable Odia language writers from Odisha, India from the 8th century onward."
Sarala Das (1465 ? ) Atibadi Jagannath Das (c. 1491-1550)
Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja (C. 1688-1740) Kavisurya Baladev Rath (c. 1789 – 1845)
Fakir Mohan Senapati Gangadhar Meher Radhanath Ray Madhusudan Rao Nanda Kishore Bal
Brajanath Rath Ramakanta Rath Sitakanta Mohapatra Haraprasad Das Pratibha Satpathy
Ramakrushna Nanda Krutibas Nayak Adikanda Mahanta
Amrutesvara temple
Notes
"The Amruteshvara temple (Kannada: ಅಮೃತೇಶ್ವರ ದೇವಸ್ಥಾನ) also spelt ""Amrutesvara"" or ""Amruteshwara"", is located in the village of Amruthapura, 67 km north of Chikmagalur town in the Chikkamagaluru district of the Karnataka state, India. Located 110 km from Hassan and 35 km from Shimoga on NH 206, Amruthapura is known for the Amruteshvara temple . The temple was built in 1196 C.E. by Amrutheshwara Dandanayaka (lit, ""commander"") under Hoysala King Veera Ballala II."
"The temple is a built according to Hoysala architecture with a wide open mantapa (hall).[1] The temple has an original outer wall with enique equally spaced circular carvings. The temple has one vimana (shrine and tower) and therefore is a ekakuta design,[2] and has a closed mantapa (hall) that connects the sanctum to the large open mantapa."
Cinemas
Construction
Delhi blasts
Films
National flag at Central Park
Picture gallery
Redevelopment plans
"Connaught Place commercial, shopping Panoramic view of inner circle and central park in Connaught Place Nickname(s): cp Connaught Place Coordinates: 28°37′58″N 77°13′11″E﻿ / ﻿28.63278°N 77.21972°E﻿ / 28.63278; 77.21972Coordinates: 28°37′58″N 77°13′11″E﻿ / ﻿28.63278°N 77.21972°E﻿ / 28.63278; 77.21972 Country India State Delhi District New Delhi Named for Duke of Connaught and Strathearn Government  • Body New Delhi Municipal Council Languages  • Official Hindi, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 110001 Lok Sabha constituency New Delhi Civic agency New Delhi Municipal Council"
"Connaught Place (कनॉट प्लेस) is one of the largest financial, commercial and business centres in New Delhi, India. It is often abbreviated to CP and houses the headquarters of several noted Indian firms. The main commercial area of the new city, New Delhi, during the erstwhile British Raj, its environs occupy a place of pride in the city and are counted among the top heritage structures in New Delhi. It was developed as a showpiece of Lutyens' Delhi with a prominent Central Business District."
"Named after Prince Arthur, 1st Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, construction work began in 1929 and was completed in 1933. A metro railway station built under it is named Rajiv Chowk (after Rajiv Gandhi).[1]"
"Regal cinema, Connaught Place's first theatre, opened in 1932, built by Sir Sobha Singh, designed by Walter Sykes George."
View of the Central Park and Inner Circle of CP
"Prior to the construction of Connaught Place, the area was a ridge, covered with kikar trees and populated with jackals and wild pigs. Residents of the Kashmere Gate, Civil Lines area visited during the weekends for partridge hunting.[2] The Hanuman Temple attracted many visitors from the old walled city, who came only on Tuesdays and Saturdays and before sunset, as the return trip was considered dangerous.[2]"
"Residents of villages including Madhoganj, Jaisingh Pura and Raja ka Bazaar were evicted to clear the area for the construction of Connaught Place and the development of its nearby areas. The villages were once situated along the historic Qutb Road, the main road connecting Shahjahanabad, the walled city of Delhi (now known as Old Delhi) to Qutb Minar in south Delhi since the Mughal era. The displaced people were relocated in Karol Bagh to the west, a rocky area populated only by trees and wild bushes. However, three structures were spared demolition. These were Hanuman temple, a Jain temple in Jaisinghpura and the Jantar Mantar.[3][4]"
"Plans to have a central business district were developed as the construction of the new capital of Imperial India began to take shape. Headed by W.H. Nicholls, the chief architect to the Government of India, the plans featured a central plaza based on the European Renaissance and in the Classical style. However Nicholls left India in 1917, and with Lutyens and Baker busy working on larger buildings in the capital, design of the plaza eventually fell to Robert Tor Russell, chief architect to the Public Works Department (PWD), Government of India.[2]"
Robert Tor Russell was the architect of Connaught Place
"Jeevan Bharti, LIC building, Connaught Place, Outer Circle, built in 1986"
"After the introduction of talkies to Indian cinema in 1931, the new medium became a craze and in the 1930s and the 40s, four theatres opened within Connaught Place Plaza: Regal, Rivoli, Odeon and a short-lived ""Indian Talkie House"" that opened in 1938. Connaught Place became the entertainment hub of New Delhi. The Regal, the first theatre in the area, was opened in 1932 by Sir Sobha Singh. It was designed by architect Walter Sykes George and mainly hosted stage performances. In the coming years it hosted Western Classical music artists, Russian ballet and British theatre groups, and soon started morning and afternoon movie shows. The next theatre to be built was the Plaza in 1940, designed by Sir Rober Tor Russell, the architect of Connaught Place itself. It was owned by director and actor Sohrab Modi until the early 1950s. The Odeon was built in 1945 and had the city’s second 70mm screen after the ""Shiela Cinema"" in Paharganj. The Rivoli, close to the Regal, was the smallest theatre in the area. Half a century later most of the theatres were still running, although most had changed ownership. The Plaza and Rivoli are now owned by multiplex giant PVR Cinemas, while the Odeon is a joint venture with Reliance Big Pictures.[2][12]"
"Entrance of the underground shopping complex, Palika Bazaar, in Connaught Place, built in the 1970s"
Connaught Place on a busy weekend
"The first known Indian to hoist the tricolour flag at Connaught Place is Padma Shri Mir Mushtaq Ahmad, the first Chief Executive Councillor of Delhi. Prior to independence, when Connaught Place was considered the heart of imperial British India, he would hoist the tricolour at the bandstand in Central Park each year on 26 January. On 7 March 2014, the largest known Indian national tricolour at that time (now second largest) was hoisted at the centre of Central Park, measuring 90 by 60 feet (27 by 18 m). The pole on which it is hoisted measures 207 feet (63 m)[14]"
"Two of the five terrorist blasts that occurred during the 13 September 2008 Delhi bombings were in Connaught Place.[15] Ten people were injured after police and witnesses said that the bombs went off in garbage cans in and around Connaught Place. There was also one bomb blast in nearby Central Park. Authorities also discovered two undetonated bombs in Delhi, one located at the Regal cinema complex in Connaught Place.[16] As a response, all rubbish bins were removed from the area for security reasons."
"By the late 2000s Connaught Place had lost much of its old glory, although the charm of the market continued to attract foot traffic. As a part of its 'Return to Heritage Project', the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) prepared a plan to revamp and redevelop this Delhi landmark. The plan included provision of heritage sensitive signage, engineering improvements of roads, drainage sewerage, water supply and substations, development of a traffic management plan, provisions of street furniture including adequate parking, walkways etc. and enhancing the structural stability of all buildings including retrofitting for earthquake resistance. All these components have been identified based on studies conducted by various reputed agencies such as SPA, RITES, CMCCC and NTPAC, etc."
Connaught Place commercial area at Night
"Over the years, Connaught Place has been location many films including sequences in Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi (2003), Pyaar Ke Side Effects (2006), 3 Idiots (2009), Aisha (2010), Delhi Belly (2011), Rockstar (2011), Ahista Ahista (2006), Agent Vinod (2012 film), Vicky Donor (2012), Hate Story (2011), Special 26 (2013), PK (2014) and ""2 States"" (2014)"
Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir at sunrise. The entrance to the main kali temple can be seen at center. The bengali-majority colony of Chittaranjan Park in the background.
"Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir (Chittaranjan Park Kali Bari) is a temple complex and Bengali community cultural center in Chittaranjan Park in New Delhi, India. Built on a small hill, it started as a Shiv temple in 1973, which still stands within the complex, the larger shrines dedicated to goddess Kali, Shiva, and Radhakrishna were added in 1984. Over the years it has remained an important centre of convergence of local Bengali community during annual Durga Puja festivities.[1]"
"The temple also hosted its first Durga Puja in 1977, a tradition that continues to date.[2]"
"It was founded in 1973, on land designated by the nascent EPDP colony, and a small temple to Shiva was consecrated on small hill at the edge of the colony. The tradition of Durga Puja started in 1977. Expansion of the devotee base enabled the construction of an imposing Kali temple in February 1984 in Bengal terracotta temple architecture. This was followed by two temples, one for Shiva and the other for Radha-Krishna. The temples was overlaid with elaborate terracotta designs around 2006-09."
"The Kali Mandir is a hub of bengali activity owing to the high density of bengalis residing in Chittaranjan Park. Managed by the Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir Society, it organizes a number of cultural and religious events throughout the year."
"Religious functions include the major five-day festival of Durga Puja, which is one of the most popular in Delhi[3] and attracts enormous crowds every day.[4] The rituals are observed with great fidelity; barrels of bengal-specific flowers are flown in fresh for the puja every day. For procuring sufficient quantities of blue lotus, needed for sandhi puja, entire ponds from Bengal are booked well in advance.[5] Other religious functions at the Mandir include Kali Puja, Lakshmi Puja, Saraswati Puja, Ganesh Chaturthi etc. The mandir attracts a large volume of donations from devotees, particularly during the Durga Puja period.[5] There is also a small atelier where artists create the earthen idols of durga and other goddesses.[6]"
Geography
"Paonta Sahib पांवटा साहिब ਪਾਂਉਟਾ ਸਾਹਿਬ City Paonta Sahib Show map of Himachal Pradesh Paonta Sahib Show map of India Location in Himachal Pradesh Coordinates: 30°26′17″N 77°37′26″E﻿ / ﻿30.438°N 77.624°E﻿ / 30.438; 77.624Coordinates: 30°26′17″N 77°37′26″E﻿ / ﻿30.438°N 77.624°E﻿ / 30.438; 77.624 Country India State Himachal Pradesh District Sirmour Municipality Sirmaur Elevation 389 m (1,276 ft) Population (2011)  • Total 25,172[1] Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Paonta Sahib (पांवटा साहिब, ਪਾਂਉਟਾ ਸਾਹਿਬ) is one of the major industrial towns of Himachal Pradesh. It is located in the south of Sirmour district, on National Highway 7. Major industries are cement production (Cement Corporation of India in Rajban), power generation and renewable energy, pharmaceuticals (Sun Pharmaceutical,[2] Mankind Pharma Limited), textiles, chemicals and food, as well as Asia's biggest limestone market at Sataun. Paonta Sahib is also an important place of worship for Sikhs, hosting a large Gurdwara named Gurudwara Paonta Sahib, on the banks of the river Yamuna. The river is the boundary between the states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand."
"The town was founded by Sikh Guru Guru Gobind Singh.[3] The Gurudwara Paonta Sahib has linkages to the tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh and the Sikh leader Banda Bahadur. Its original name was Paontika. ""Paon"" in Hindi means feet and ""tika"" in Hindi means became stable. It is believed that Guru Gobind Singh and his horse stopped at this place and he decided to stay here. He lived here for 4 and half year as he never stayed so long at any place in his entire life. He wrote many Sikh religious books here and then went to Anandpur Sahib to establish the Khalsa Panth. The Gurudwara also houses a museum which contains a lot of antiques and weapons used by Guru Gobind Singh during his stay."
Paonta Sahib as seen from Baba Bhure Shah's Dargah on the Uttarakhand Himachal border.
"Paonta Sahib is located at 30°26′17″N 77°37′26″E﻿ / ﻿30.438°N 77.624°E﻿ / 30.438; 77.624.[4] It has an average elevation of 389 metres (1,276 feet). It is on the bank of the river Yamuna, the river being the boundary between the states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. It is situated near the towns of Nahan in Himachal Pradesh, Yamunanagar in Haryana, Saharanpur in Western Uttar Pradesh and Dehradun in Uttarakhand. It is on the western extreme of the Doon Valley a distance of about 44 km from Dehradun. Kalesar National Park is 12 km from Paonta Sahib."
"As of 2011 India census,[5] Paonta Sahib had a population of 1,58,268 (urban 25,172/ rural 1,33,096). Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%.[6] Paonta Sahib has an average literacy rate of 76%, higher than National average of 74.04% (2011 figure).: male literacy is 79%, and female literacy is 72%. In Paonta Sahib, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Schools In Paonta Sahib
General information
"Shri Jhandewalan Mandir Name Proper name Jhandewalan Mandir Devanagari झंडेवालान मंदिर, दिल्ली भारत Geography Country India State Delhi District north Location Jhandewalan metro station North Delhi Culture Primary deity Vaishno Devi- वैष्णो देवी, Shakti - आदि शक्ति Important festivals Navratri नवरात्रि महोत्सव Architecture Architectural styles Hindu temple architecture History and governance Website http://www.maajhandewali.com"
"The Jhandewalan Temple is a Hindu temple near Karol Bagh in Delhi, India dedicated to the goddess Aadi Shakti.[1]"
The lower level of the temple is where people perform Puja. The upper level of the temple has the idol of Mata Jhandewali with the idol of Saraswati and Kali. There are also idols of other Gods on the upper level.
The festival of Navaratri is held twice a year at the temple. Jhandewalimata's aarti is done 4 times in a day.
Areas near Nehru Place
External links--
Location and accessibility
Other Areas In South Delhi
Real estate
"Main commercial center, Nehru Place, South Delhi, India"
"Coordinates: 28°32′50″N 77°15′03″E﻿ / ﻿28.54722°N 77.25083°E﻿ / 28.54722; 77.25083 Nehru Place (Hindi: नेहरू प्लेस) is a large commercial, financial, and business center in Delhi, India. Though its importance as a financial centre has declined in recent years, Nehru Place is still a prominent commercial area in South Delhi and houses the headquarters of several Indian firms and rivals with other financial centres in the metropolis like Connaught Place, Gurgaon, Bhikaji Cama Place, Rajendra Place and NOIDA. It is widely considered to be a major information technology hub of South Asia."
"Named after the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, its main commercial district was built in the early 1980s, and consists of several 4-floor buildings, that flank a large pedestrian courtyard, built over an underground parking. Although poorly maintained, most of the original structures are still in use."
"Nehru Place is accessible by all forms of public transport, as it lies next to the Outer Ring Road, an arc that encompasses major parts of South Delhi, and the bus services are very frequent, usually once every five to eight minutes. Private taxis are also available, as well as a paid parking for cars and motorcycles. The famous Baha'i faith Lotus temple is also located close by. Now Nehru place is accessible by Delhi Metro. The nearest metro stations include Nehru place and Kalkaji Mandir."
"Has its own Delhi-Metro Station on Violet Line(Mandi House to escort mujesar via Badarpur) 30 minutes from Nizamuddin Railway Station 1 hr from New Delhi Railway Station It has its own bus terminal, popularly known as Nehru Place Bus TerminaL."
Office space and hotels are easily available around Nehru Place.
"Other businesses that operate in the area are banks, multinational corporations, several restaurants and even a multiplex. Several small hotels are also available across the roads on all sides. Intercontinental series of hotels has its own member hotel here as Eros Intercontinental. Surprisingly, the market also has been a hub for digital printing[1] and photocopy services. The market houses around 20 large and small scale digital printers who contribute about INR 100 crore each year. The market is closed on Sunday but the flea market is open seven days a week."
Chirag Delhi East of Kailash Greater Kailash Sarita Vihar Kailash Colony Okhla Kalkaji Govindpuri Jasola Vihar Chittaranjan Park Naini Sant Nagar
Sangam Vihar East of Kailash Greater Kailash Lajpat Nagar Mehrauli Malviya Nagar Nehru Place Chittaranjan Park Saket South Extension Jaitpur Dakshin puri
Access
Centre of Bengali Culture in Delhi
Demographics
"Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir, with shrines devoted to Shiva, Kali and Radhakrishna, built in 1984"
"Chittaranjan Park neighbourhood Chittaranjan Park Location in Delhi, India Coordinates: 28°32′23″N 77°14′52″E﻿ / ﻿28.539592°N 77.247699°E﻿ / 28.539592; 77.247699Coordinates: 28°32′23″N 77°14′52″E﻿ / ﻿28.539592°N 77.247699°E﻿ / 28.539592; 77.247699 Country  India State Delhi District New Delhi (formerly South Delhi) Metro New Delhi Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) PIN 110 019 Planning agency Municipal Corporation of Delhi"
"Chittaranjan Park (Bengali: চিত্তরঞ্জন পার্ক), also known as C.R. Park, is an affluent neighbourhood in South Delhi, and home to a large Bengali community. It was established in the early 1960s under the name EPDP Colony or East Pakistan Displaced Persons Colony, and later renamed after the deshbandhu (patriot) Chittaranjan Das in the 1980s.[1] Today, despite its growing cosmopolitan nature, it remains home to a large Bengali community, and is home to Kolkata-style street-food stalls, Bengali cuisine, fish markets, temples and cultural centers.[1] It hosts many festivities and cultural events. Durga Puja is the most celebrated festival here which boasts magnificent marquee."
"In 1954, an association was formed for the inhabitants from East Bengal who were displaced from their homes in East Pakistan during the Partition of India and the associated Partition of Bengal (1947). A large group of government officers hailing from the erstwhile East Bengal migrated to Delhi and lobbied for a residential neighbourhood. Leading roles were taken by Chandra Kumar Mukherjee,[1] Subodh Gopal Basumallik, Ashutosh Dutta, Bimal Bhusan Chakraborty, and the Chief Election Commissioner, Shyamaprasanna Senverma.[2] In the 1960s, land was assigned in a barren rocky area in the-then distant Southern areas. Members were required to provide some documentation of their residential status, and were required to be ""already residing in Noida and gainfully employed in the capital""; based on this, 2147 people were given plots of land, initially on lease for 99 years, but subsequently converted into a freehold ownership.[3]"
"The original layout had the two-thousand odd plots, divided into eleven blocks A-K, along with a number of markets and cultural spaces. However, in the 1990s, 714 displaced families were accommodated among those who had not been able to meet the earlier deadline. This resulted in new blocks, called M, N, O, K-1, K-2, Pocket 40 (referred to as Navapalli), Pocket 52 (referred to as Dakhinpalli ) and Pocket-K. The main thoroughfare of the colony is Bipin Chandra Pal Marg. Institutions of note are a branch of the Raisina Bengali School, Kali Mandir (also called the Shiv Mandir), Bangiya Samaj and Chittaranjan Bhawan.[1]"
"Kali idol at Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir, CR Park."
"The colony was founded with plots going exclusively to migrants from East Bengal, but over time, the demographics has become a little more pan-Indian, though it continues to attract other Bengalis (West Bengal roots) in general. It has emerged as the most important outpost of Bengali culture in the capital. The explosive growth of South Delhi property prices and the ageing of the original land allottees is resulting in an ongoing demographic diversification.[4]"
"The first wave of Bengali settlers came to Delhi in late 1700's and early 1800's. Another essential requirement was that of a Kali Bari. The first Kali Bari of Delhi is the one at Tis Hazari, which still exists. The idol and Kali Bari were first established in 1826 but the temple was destroyed during the 1857 revolt. The idol was later salvaged and a temple built in Roshanpura. The space started to fall short to accommodate the devotees, land was bought and the present temple built at Tis Hazari in 1917. There are more than 25 Kali bari temple and few Durga bari. Moreover, few other temples of Bengali faith are also built in different parts of New Delhi and NCR. The first private Durga Puja in Delhi was celebrated in 1842 by one Majumdar of Rajshahi, followed by some other Puja celebrations that continued for a few years. The first baroyari (community-based) Puja is that of Kashmere Gate, first started in 1910 and still celebrated with the same fervour and traditions. Kali Bari in Mandir Marg temple built in 1930. The Big wave of Bengali settled when Calcutta and Delhi were first connected by train in 1864, thereafter with the shifting of capital to New Delhi in 1911, the shifting to government employees' followed logically. The Next big wave settled in 1947 and 1971. Initially employees from central government departments like Post and Telegraph, Government of India Press, Accountant General of Central Revenues (AGCR) and Railways were settled in Timarpur; thereafter in 1924, another phase of government housing came up near Gole Market, for employees of the Secretariat. Overtime many employees after retirement settled in Karol Bagh and WEA, and later in South Delhi.[5]"
"Chittaranjan Park however remains a major centre of Bengali cultural life in New Delhi, the best part is its evening life in the markets and on the streets people doing AddA - a favourite Bengali bhadralok pastime. The Durga Puja celebrations are renowned for their elaborate pandals and cultural functions. The major Durga Puja celebrations are B-Block, Kali Mandir, Co-operative Ground, Mela Ground, and Navapalli (Pocket 40). Auditoriums at Chittaranjan Bhawan and Bipin Pal Bhawan regularly host performances of Bengali theatre and music, which are also occasionally held in the Shiv/Kali Mandir. The week of Durga Puja sees performances by well-known artistes and troupes from West Bengal and Bangladesh as well as performances from group of local people residing at C.R. Park."
"Durga idol at Cooperative Park Puja, Durga Puja 2008"
"The Indira Gandhi International Airport is 17 km (domestic) and 23 km (international) from Chittaranjan Park. The New Delhi railway station is 16 km, and the Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station 9 km away. The Violet Line of the Delhi Metro has a stop at the Nehru Place station within 1 km from B-block in Chittaranjan Park."
Academics
Status
"Dharanidhar College Type Government Established 1962 Academic affiliation North Orissa University Location Keonjhar, Odisha, India"
Dharanidhar College is a college in the district of Keonjhar in the Indian state of Odisha.
"The main building of the college, spanning more than ten thousand square feet of plinth area and solid concrete structure with provision for almost all necessary facilities was donated by a benevolent elite, Muhammad Shrajuddin of Keonjhar. The college was taken over by the Government of Odisha in 1962, and on opening of the faculty of the humanities in 1967, it was renamed Keonjhar College. During 1983-84, the institution was changed into the present name, after the name of Bhuyan Dharanidhar, a renowned revolutionary whose voice against feudalism has been instance and inspiration for uprise in this region."
"In 1999 the college was affiliated to North Odisha University, at Baripada, in the adjoining district of Mayurbhanj."
"Dharanidhar College offers teaching at the undergraduate level in subjects like Anthropology, English, Economics, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Oriya and Sanskrit in humanities stream, in commerce and in Botany, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geology, Mathematics, Physics and Zoology in Science stream."
"The Test of My Life: From Cricket to Cancer and Back Author Yuvraj Singh Country India Language English Subject Autobiography Genre Autobiography Publisher Random House India / Ebury Press Publication date March 19, 2013 Media type Print (Paperback) Pages 216 ISBN 818400298X"
The Test of My Life: From Cricket to Cancer and Back is the autobiography of the Indian cricketer Yuvraj Singh. It was released on 19 March 2013.
"Adarsh, Srinivas and Nandan the first 20 copies of the book were auctioned on 9 March 2013 online on Collectabillia.com at a base price of INR 5,000.[1][2]"
The Test of My Life is an autobiography of Yuvraj Singh in which he describes the ups and downs of his career. It's the story of his toughest days and how he managed to come out of it. It’s the story of not just his triumphs but one of the biggest setbacks and his comeback from a life-threatening cancer that could have ended his career.
"Yuvraj Singh is the poster boy of Indian Cricket, the man who hit Stuart Broad (England fast bowler) for six sixes in an over in a World Twenty20 encounter against England in 2007. The ever smiling Yuvraj or “Pie-Chucker”, as he is fondly called or the bad boy of Indian Cricket is perhaps the second most loved player in Indian Cricket after the legend Sachin Tendulkar. He contributed immensely in India's World Cup win in 2011 and was adjudged the Player of the Tournament."
"The book gives an account of Yuvraj’s troublesome childhood when he did not want to be a cricketer but was forced in to the sport by his father Yograj Singh, another former International Cricketer who could not achieve much success and wanted to fulfill his dreams through his son."
"The Test of My Life is a book of two stories, one of Yuvraj’s growing up and becoming one of the most successful cricketers of Indian cricket, becoming a role model for millions of people and other of him fighting cancer in Indianapolis, US, miles away from home in all the loneliness. In the first story Yuvraj describes his growth as a cricketer and how he matured as a cricketer but in the second part it’s about how he changed and matured as a person, his growth as an individual."
"Yuvraj writes about his Ranji Trophy campaign, his dream debut against Australia in 2001, his ODI career and unsuccessful test career. India’s World Cup campaign has been wonderfully described. On the eve of match against England, he wasn’t feeling fit enough to play the game but Zaheer Khan (Indian fast bowler and his teammate) and Sachin Tendulkar convinced him to play. “You will matter when it matters the most”, were Sachin's words of inspiration for him. Yuvraj played the World Cup with cancer, constantly coughing and not eating much."
"In the last chapter Yuvraj talks about his emotional return to cricket. The whole country waited desperately for his return in a One-Day International match between India and New Zealand in Vishakhapatnam but to their dismay the game got washed out. Two days later Yuvraj made his come back in Chennai. But the return was not so easy, it took months of dedicated training at NCA, Bengaluru."
"The book has been co-authored by Sharda Ugra and Nishant Jeet Arora. It’s not a book about the scoreboards. This book is dedicated by Yuvraj to his mother Shabnam Singh, who was with him through the thick and thin and in the worst moments of his life.He was the best player in world cup 2011."
External links
"Kalahandi Balangir Koraput Region is a region in Odisha, India."
"The districts of Southern and Western Odisha are regarded as the most backward region by the planning commission, which re-designated some of these districts as KBK (Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput). During 1992-93, the three larger districts were re-organized into eight districts viz. Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabrangpur, Kalahandi, Rayagada, Nuapada, Balangir and Sonepur. These eight districts comprise 14 Subdivisions, 37 Tehsils, 80 CD Blocks, 1,437 Gram Panchayats and 12,293 villages. The eight districts which form the KBK region account for 19.72% of the population and occupy over 30.59% geographical area of the State. Around 90% of the people of this region still live in villages. Female literacy is only 24.72%. As per the 1997 census of BPL families, about 72% families are below poverty line among those who live in this region which was 82% during 1992 census. More specifically, 49 CD Blocks of KBK districts are regarded as “very backward” and 28 CD Blocks are considered as “backward”. Persistent crop failure, lack of access to the basic service and entitlements, starvation, malnutrition and migration are the leading manifestations in the region."
"Other socio-economic indicators including population composition and density, net area irrigated, hospital beds, and connectivity of villages (due to criss-crossed terrains) to growth centres and service centres are also far from satisfactory."
"The KBK districts have been historically rich in forest resources. Though the people have been using these forests very intensively and eking out their livelihood from this source, forests of this region have not received adequate investments and managerial inputs over time. Intensive use of forests for sustenance coupled with lack of insufficient investments and managerial inputs are, thus, continuously leading to forest degradation. Although one third (16,131 km2.) of the geographical area of this region is recorded as forests, only 11.3% (5,473 km2) is actually dense forest (i.e., with crown density over 40%) as per satellite imagery data. It has been further ascertained that 9% (4,332 km2.) forest area is completely devoid of vegetal cover. Another 13.5% (6,327 km2) forests are open having crown density more than 10% but less than 40%."
The Open content logo
"The Open Definition is a document published by the Open Knowledge Foundation (now Open Knowledge International (OKI)), to define openness in relation to data and content.[1] It specifies what licences for such material may and may not stipulate, in order to be considered open licences.[2] The definition was derived from the Open Source Definition.[2]"
OKI summarise the document as:[1]
"The latest form of the document, published in November 2015, is version 2.1.[2] The use of language in the document is conformant with RFC 2119.[2]"
"The document is available under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License,[1] which itself meets the Open Definition."
"The first draft of the Open Definition, v0.1, was circulated in August 2005.[3] v1.0 was published in July 2006.[3] v2.0 was published in October 2014.[3]"
"Official website Why the Open Definition Matters for Open Data, September 2014 blog post by Rufus Pollock, founder and president of OKI"
The Open Definition
Architecture
Brahmeswara Temple Brahmeswara Temple Geography Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneshwar Culture Primary deity Brahmeswara History and governance Date built 1058 CE
"Brahmeswara Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Shiva located in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, erected at the end of the 9th century CE, is richly carved inside and out. This Hindu temple can be dated with fair accuracy by the use of inscriptions that were originally on the temple. They are now lost, but records of them preserve the information of around 1058 CE. The temple is built in the 18th regnal year of the Somavamsi king Udyotakesari by his mother Kolavati Devi, which corresponds to 1058 CE.[1]"
"Historians place the temple to belong to the late 11th century as ascertained from an inscription carried to Calcutta from Bhubaneswar. The inscription indicates that the temple was built by Kolavatidevi, the mother of Somavamsi king Udyota Kesari. It was built with four Natyasalas at a place known as Siddhatirtha in Ekamra (modern day Bhubaneswar). The inscription was recorded during the 18th renal year of Udyotha Kesari, corresponding to 1060 CE. Since the inscription is not in its original place, historians indicate the possibility of the reference to another temple, but based on the location and other features specified, it is ascertained that the inscription belongs to the temple. Also, another issue raised by Panigrahi is that the four cardinal temples are Angasalas (associate temples) and not Natyasalas (dance halls) as indicated in the inscription.[2]"
"The temple is classified as a panchatanaya temple where apart from the main shrine, there are four subsidiary shrines in the four corners around the temple. The temple on account of its later origin, has perfectly developed structure compared to its predecessors. The vimana of the temple is 18.96 m (62.2 ft) tall.[2] The temple is built with traditional architectural methods of wood carving, but applied on stone building. The buildings were built in a shape of full volume pyramid, and then they would be carved inside and outside."
Plan of subsidiary shrines of Brahmeswara Temple complex.
"The basic structure of the Orissan temple has two connecting buildings. The smaller is the Jagmohana, or assembly hall. Behind it is the Shikhara, the towering sanctuary. Later temples have two additional halls in front—one for dancing, and the other for banquets.[3]"
"The Brahmeswara shows quite a bit of affinity with the much earlier Mukteswar Temple, including the carved interior of the Jagmohana, and in the sculptural iconography such as the lion head motif, which appeared for the first time in the Mukteswara, and is here evident in profusion. There are quite a number of innovations, however, including the introduction of a great number of musicians and dancers, some holding lutes, on the exterior walls. For the first time in temple architectural history iron beams find their first use."
"On sandstone walls there are symbolic decorations and the notion of godlike figures that helps the believer in his meditation. The carvings over the door frame contain beautiful flower designs as well as flying figures. Like the Rajarani, there are images of the eight directional Guardian Deities. There are also quite a number of tantric-related images, and even Chamunda appears on the western facade, holding a trident and a human head, standing on a corpse. Shiva and other deities are also depicted in their horrific aspects."
"One of the lost inscriptions stated that a Queen Kolavati presented 'many beautiful women' to the temple, and it has been suggested that this is an evidence of the 'Devadasi' tradition, which assumed such importance in later Orissan temple architecture and temple life."
Professional councils
Future
"University Grants Commission विद्यापीठ अनुदान आयोग Abbreviation UGC Motto Gyan-Vigyan Vimuktaye (Knowledge Liberates) Formation 1956 (1956) Headquarters New Delhi Location India Chairman Prof. Ved Prakash Affiliations Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, NCERT Website www.ugc.ac.in"
"The University Grants Commission of India (UGC India) is a statutory body set up by the Indian Union government in accordance to the UGC Act 1956[1] under Ministry of Human Resource Development, and is charged with coordination, determination and maintenance of standards of higher education. It provides recognition to universities in India, and disburses funds to such recognised universities and colleges. Prof. Ved Prakash is the incumbent Chairman of UGC, India.[2] Its headquarters is in New Delhi, and six regional centres in Pune, Bhopal, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Bangalore.[3]"
UGC is modelled after University Grants Committee of UK which was an advisory committee of the British government and advised on the distribution of grant funding amongst the British universities. The committee was in existence from 1919 until 1989.
"The UGC was first formed in 1945 to oversee the work of the three Central Universities of Aligarh, Banaras and Delhi. Its responsibility was extended in 1947 to cover all Indian universities.[4]"
"In August 1949 a recommendation was made to reconstitute the UGC along similar lines to the University Grants Committee of the United kingdom. This recommendation was made by the University Education Commission of 1948-1949 which was set up under the chairmanship of S. Radhakrishnan ""to report on Indian university education and suggest improvements and extensions"".[5][6] In 1952 the government decided that all grants to universities and higher learning institutions should be handled by the UGC. Subsequently, an inauguration was held on 28 December 1953 by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the Minister of Education, Natural Resources and Scientific Research."
"In November 1956 the UGC became a statutory body upon the passing of the ""University Grants Commission Act, 1956"" by the Indian Parliament.[1]"
"In 1994 and 1995 the UGC decentralised its operations by setting up six regional centres at Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Bhopal, Guwahati and Bangalore.[7] The head office of the UGC is located at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg in New Delhi, with two additional bureaus operating from 35, Feroze Shah Road and the South Campus of University of Delhi as well.[8]"
"UGC, along with CSIR currently conducts NET for appointments of teachers in colleges and universities.[9] It has made NET qualification mandatory for teaching at Graduation level and at Post Graduation level since July 2009. However, those with Ph.D are given five percent relaxation."
Accreditation for higher learning over Universities under the aegis of University Grants Commission is overseen by following fifteen autonomous statutory institutions :[10][11]
"In 1976, the Union Minister of Education made open the government of India's plans to close down UGC and the related body All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), in favour of a higher regulatory body with more sweeping powers.[12] This goal, proposed by the Higher Education and Research (HE&R) Bill, 2011, intends to replace the UGC with a ""National Commission for Higher Education & Research (NCHER)"" ""for determination, coordination, maintenance and continued enhancement of standards of higher education and research"".[13] The bill proposes absorbing the UGC and other academic agencies into this new organisation. Those agencies involved in medicine and law would be exempt from this merger ""to set minimum standards for medical and legal education leading to professional practice"".[14] The bill has received opposition from the local governments of the Indian states of Bihar, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, but has received general support.[13] UGC has directed ten institutions to immediately shut down their off-campus centres.[15] In December 2015 the Indian government set a National Institutional of Ranking Framework under UGC which will rank all educational institutes by April 2016.[16] UGC has suggested to all Universities in India to set up an Online Admission System from the academic session commencing in 2016-2017.[17] Recently UGC has released 22 fake universities, 9 are from Uttar Pradesh, 5 from Delhi, 2 from West Bengal and one each from Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Odisha.[18]"
University Grants Commission (India)
"Sajnakhali Wildlife Sanctuary IUCN category IV (habitat/species management area) Location within West Bengal Location West Bengal, India Coordinates 21°43′16″N 88°54′00″E﻿ / ﻿21.721°N 88.9°E﻿ / 21.721; 88.9Coordinates: 21°43′16″N 88°54′00″E﻿ / ﻿21.721°N 88.9°E﻿ / 21.721; 88.9[1] Area 362 km2 (140 sq mi) Established 1976 http://www.wildbengal.com/urls/pa_san_sajnekhali.htm"
"Sajnakhali Wildlife Sanctuary is a 362 km2 area in the northern part of the Sundarbans delta in South 24 Parganas district, West Bengal, India. The area is mainly mangrove scrub, forest and swamp. It was set up as a sanctuary in 1976. It is home to a rich population of different species of wildlife, such as water fowl, heron, pelican, spotted deer, rhesus macaques, wild boar, tigers, water monitor lizards, fishing cats, otters, Olive ridley turtle, crocodiles, Batagur terrapins, and migratory birds."
Insurance Companies Selected
"The Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana or BKKY is a health insurance scheme for the farmers in the state of Odisha, India. The Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY) was launched by Chief Minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, in Angul district of Odisha to provide people financial support through health and accident insurance. [1] There are many hospitals, Community Health Centre (CHCs) in each district of Odisha under Biju Krushak Kalya Yojana (BKKY) to provide people health care with low cost."
IFFCO-TOKIO General Insurance National Insurance Reliance General Insurance The New India Insurance [2]
Ration cards
Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) is a Government of India sponsored scheme to provide highly subsidised food to millions of the poorest families. It was launched by the [NDA] government on 25 December 2000 and first implemented in the Indian state of Rajasthan.
"After identifying the ""poorest of the poor"" (the 10,000,000 poorest families in the Below Poverty Line category) through extensive surveying,[1] the government began providing them an opportunity to purchase up to 35 kilograms of rice and wheat at a highly subsidised cost of three rupees per kilogram of rice and two rupees per kilogram of wheat. Poor families were identified by their respective state rural development facilities through use of surveys. The scheme has been expanded twice, once in June 2003 and then in August 2004, adding an additional 5,000,000 BPL families each time and bringing the total number of families covered up to 20,000,000."
"Once a family has been recognized as eligible for the AAY, they are to be given a unique ""Antyodaya Ration Card."" This card, also called the PDS yellow card, acts as a form of identification, proving that the bearer is authorized to receive the level of rations the card describes.The color of the card is green.[2][3]"
Origin
Communication
"Jalaput Dam Location Jalaput Coordinates 18°27′14″N 82°32′49″E﻿ / ﻿18.45389°N 82.54694°E﻿ / 18.45389; 82.54694Coordinates: 18°27′14″N 82°32′49″E﻿ / ﻿18.45389°N 82.54694°E﻿ / 18.45389; 82.54694 Purpose Irrigation, Power Status Completed Opening date 2000 Operator(s) Andhra Pradesh & Odisha Dam and spillways Type of dam Earthen Impounds Machkund River Height 60.65 m (199 ft) maximum. Length 419 m (1,375 ft) Spillway type Ogee section Spillway capacity 5660 cumecs Reservoir Creates Jalaput Reservoir Total capacity 971×10^6 m3 (0.233 cu mi) Active capacity 893×10^6 m3 (0.214 cu mi) Inactive capacity 78×10^6 m3 (0.019 cu mi) Catchment area 1,963 km2 (758 sq mi) Surface area 97.12 km2 (37.50 sq mi) Power station Operator(s) Andhra Pradesh Turbines 3 × 17, 3 × 23 MW Installed capacity 120 MW"
"The Jalaput Dam is a hydroelectric dam built on the Machkund River, a tributary of the Godavari River[1] in India which rises in the Mudugal hills of Visakhapatnam District and nearby Ondra Gadda it becomes the boundary between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. For over 48 km the river runs nearly north along a meandering course through the Padwa Valley. About 48 km south of Jeypore, it winds westward along the edge of the Plateau and then suddenly tums at a short angle to the south-west down a steep descent popularly known as Duduma Falls."
"Jalaput Dam (and Reservoir) impounds 34.273 Tmcft of water for the needs of down stream 120 MW Machkund Hydro-Electric Scheme (MHES), which is in operation since 1955.[2] The dam and the MHES are the joint projects of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha states. The existing six number power generation units have become old and obsolete compared to latest technology. It is much economical to install a new hydro-electric scheme with a 15 km long tunnel utilizing nearly 400 meters available level drop between Jalaput reservoir and the existing Balimela Reservoir back waters. There is also possibility to install huge capacity Pumped-storage hydroelectricity station for the needs of peaking power utilising high high water level drop. This reservoir will serve as upper pond and existing Balimela reservoir as tail pond for installing Pumped-storage hydroelectricity units. Thus this reservoir water can be put to use more productively. The existing MHES[3] can also be kept in operation by diverting the surplus water from the nearby upper Kolab reservoir[4] into the Machkund river basin by joining with nearly 4 km long tunnel. This would facilitate to utilise excess water from the upper Kolab reservoir for enhanced electricity generation in MHES and downstream Balimela power house by using nearly 200% more available head in Sileru river basin before putting finally for irrigation use."
"Jalaput is a border village between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. One bridge distinguishes between the two states. Both side of bridge are known as LF (Andhra Pradesh, Visakhapatnam district) and RF (Odisha, Koraput district). Earlier to formation of the jalaput dam it was known as Tentaput. The village is surrounded by many tribal villages still."
"Jalaput , Machkund, and Onukadelli form the triangular shape of this hydro electricity generation project. The electricity generated here is supplied to many nearby towns including Visakhapatnam, Vijaywada in Andhra Pradesh and, Koraput and Jeypore in Odisha."
Jalaput is connected by road with all important towns in Odisha and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. It is one of the most sought after visit places during winter. Araku Valley is 60 km from here. Visakhapatnam is the largest nearby city of this village.
"The Balimela reservoir boat attack occurred on 29 June 2008 when CPI (Maoist) forces attacked a boat on the Balimela reservoir in Orissa state (India) carrying 4 anti-Naxalite police and 60 Greyhound commandos. The boat sunk, killing 38 troops, while 26 survived.[1][2][3]"
Jaga mohan of the Temple of Surya at Konark
"A Jaga Mohan or Jagamohan or Jagamohana is an assembly hall in the Hindu temple architecture, especially in Orissa.[1][2]"
"It is located between the temple entrance and the Garba griha that is to say, the heart of the sanctuary. It is typical of the Nagara architecture temples of northern India. In the south of India, the halls are named mandapas which are often large halls with columns."
"As garba griha, it is most often built on a plan based on structures of squares and circles. However, for the temples of goddesses, the jaga mohan is built on a plan based on structures of rectangles and triangles. Such as for example the plan of the temple of Varahi Deula at Chaurasi near Puri in Orissa.[1]"
"Generally the garbhagriha is a windowless and sparsely lit chamber, intentionally created thus to focus the devotee's mind on the tangible form of the divine within it. On the contrary, the jaga mohan is highly decorated with sculptures of deities, mythologic scenes or ornements."
"The most famous is the one of the Temple of Surya at Konark. Due to the collapse of the main temple tower (Shikhara), the jaga mohan now appears to be the main building of the temple."
Trophy
Results
"The Pataudi Trophy is awarded to the winner of the England-India Test Cricket series held in England. The trophy itself was designed and made by Jocelyn Burton. It was first awarded in 2007 to commemorate the 75 years since the first Test match between the two sides. England currently hold the trophy, having retained the trophy they won by beating India in 2011 and 2014. India won the first edition of the series in England in 2007."
"Series are played in accordance with the International Cricket Council's future tours programme, with varying lengths of time between tours. If a series is drawn then the country holding the Pataudi Trophy retaining"
The trophy is named after the Pataudi cricketing family. Iftikhar Ali Khan Pataudi played for both international teams on three occasions and is the only man to have played for England and India. Iftikhar's son Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi was a long-term captain of the Indian side in the 1960s and 1970s. The Pataudi Trophy is presented to the victorious team as a symbol of its victory.
"In India, the England-India Test series is played for the Anthony De Mello Trophy, but there have been attempts to make the Pataudi Trophy the winner's prize in India, as well as England.[1]"
"In 2007, Marylebone Cricket Club commissioned a new trophy to celebrate the 75th anniversary of India's first Test match in 1932. The trophy was designed and made by London Silversmith Jocelyn Burton in her studio in Holborn. The Trophy will be on display at Jocelyn's exhibition in November and December 2012 at Bentley & Skinner, London.[2]"
"A team must win a series to hold the Pataudi Trophy. A drawn series results in the previous holders retaining the trophy. Three complete Pataudi Trophy series have been played, with India winning one and England two."
"The grounds used have been Lord's (2007, 2011 and 2014), Edgbaston (2011), The Oval (2007, 2011 and 2014), Trent Bridge (2007, 2011 and 2014), Old Trafford (2014) and the Rose Bowl (2014)."
Courses
"Biju pattnaik Film and Television Institute of odisha,cuttack Type Film school Established 1998 Location Cuttack, Odisha, India Campus Bhubanananda orissa school of engineering cuttack Affiliations State Council for Technical Education & Vocational Training Website http://www.bpftio.org.in"
"The Biju Patnaik Film and Television Institute of Odisha, Cuttack (BPFTIO), is an autonomous Institute established by the Government of Odisha under World Bank assisted scheme to meet the emerging demand of well trained technical manpower in the field of television network and film production activities. Situated on the bank of river Mahanadi, BPFTIO occupies an independent space in the sprawling campus of Bhubanananda Orissa School of Engineering (BOSE), Cuttack the oldest Engineering School of the State. Funded by Government of Odisha, Department of Employment and Technical Education & Training, the institute offers diploma courses in 3 disciplines such as Cinematography, Sound & TV. Engineering and Film & Video Editing.[1]"
"The Institute was established in 1998. Government of Odisha has established an autonomous Institute in the name and style of Biju Pattnaik Film & Television Institute of Orissa (BPFTIO) under World Bank assisted scheme to meet the emerging demand of well trained technical manpower in the field of television network and film production activities. Situated on the bank of river Mahanadi, BPFTIO occupies an independent space in the sprawling campus of Bhubanananda Orissa School of Engineering (BOSE), Cuttack the oldest Engineering School of the State. Funded by Government of Odisha, Department of Employment and Technical Education & Training, the institute offers diploma courses in 3 disciplines such as Cinematography, Sound & TV. Engineering and Film & Video Editing."
"The Institute offers three-year diploma courses in Cinematography, Sound and TV. Engineering (Audiography) and Film and Video Editing;"
Official website Alumni Website of FTII an Informal Space for FTIIans
Biju Pattnaik Film and Television Institute of Odisha
Routes
"Bhubaneswar City Bus is a public transport bus service run in Bhubaneswar, Odisha. It is run in public-private partnership between Bhubaneswar-Puri Transport Service Limited (BPTSL) and Dream Team Sahara (DTS) under JNNURM scheme.[2] A fleet of 125 buses cover all major destinations across the city; and with Cuttack, Puri and Khurda.[2] The service was started in October 2010. There is plan to increase the fleet size by 48 non-AC buses and 12 air-conditioned buses on selected routes.[3] Air-conditioned bus services started from March 2014.[4] The fare is collected by the on-board ticket collector, either by cash or through smart cards, and depending on the distance, the fare can range between Rs. 5 and Rs. 37. The fare for AC bus services ranges between Rs 16 to Rs 42."
"Currently, the buses run on 17 different routes between 6 AM and 9 PM with variable frequency between 15 minutes to 30 minutes."
207/207A Nandan Kanan - Biju Patnaik International Airport 306/306J KIIT University - Balakati Bazaar 405 Dumduma - V.S.S Nagar 504 Nakhara - Nuagaon 603 Sai Temple - Kalinga Vihar 333 Lingaraja Temple - Ghatikia 801 Khurda - Master Canteen 414 Biju Patanaik Park (CTC) - A G Square 171 Baramunda - Puri 324 Bidanasi (CTC) - Master Canteen 315 GGP Colony - Mayfair 225 KIIT University - Kalpana Square 432 Jagannath Temple (Puri) – Loknath Temple (Puri) 450 Talabania (Puri) - Jagannath Temple (Puri) 522 Master Canteen - Chandaka 531 Master Canteen - AIIMS Bhubaneswar 108 GRIDCO - Jagannath Temple (Puri)
Details
Major events
Gallery
"Marine Drive मरीन ड्राईव्ह Queen's Necklace Neighbourhood Air India (left), Oberoi (centre) and NCPA (right) buildings at Marive Drive, Nariman Point Marine Drive Location in Mumbai Coordinates: 18°56′38″N 72°49′23″E﻿ / ﻿18.944°N 72.823°E﻿ / 18.944; 72.823Coordinates: 18°56′38″N 72°49′23″E﻿ / ﻿18.944°N 72.823°E﻿ / 18.944; 72.823 Country India State Maharashtra Metro Mumbai Languages  • Official Marathi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30)"
"Marine Drive is a 3.5-kilometre-long boulevard in South Mumbai in the city of Mumbai. It is a 'C'-shaped six-lane concrete road along the coast, which is a natural bay. The road links Nariman Point to Babulnath and Malabar Hill. Marine Drive is situated over reclaimed land facing west-south-west. A promenade lies parallel to this road. Marine Drive is also known as the Queen's Necklace because, if viewed at night from an elevated point anywhere along the drive, the street lights resemble a string of pearls in a necklace."
"The official name for this road, though rarely used, is Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road. The promenade is lined with palm trees. At the northern end of Marine Drive is Chowpatty Beach. This is a popular beach famed for its Bhel puri (local fast food). Many restaurants also line this stretch of the road. Further down this road lies Walkeshwar, a wealthy neighbourhood of the city, also home to the Governor of Maharashtra."
"Most of the buildings which were built by wealthy Parsis sport an art deco look that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s. Real estate prices along the esplanade are high. Many hotels dot the drive, most prominent among them being the 5-star Oberoi (formerly the Oberoi Hilton Tower however reverted to the original name as of early 2008), The Intercontinental, Hotel Marine Plaza, Sea Green Hotel and a few other smaller hotels. Marine Drive is the preferred connecting road between the central business district located at Nariman Point and the rest of the city."
"Former singing superstar of 1950s Suraiya lived here in 'Krishna Mahal' in the ground floor apartment from 1940s till her death on 31st January 2004 (as a tenant of Shah family). The house was first taken on rent by her mother Mumtaz Begum. Many other film stars, like Nargis, Raj Kapoor lived nearby in 1940s and 50s."
"In 2012, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai announced that the entire road would be resurfaced, 72 years after it was originally laid.[1]"
Marine Drive has hosted the following major events in recent times.
"In 2014, on the occasion of the 65th Republic Day of India, the Protocol Department of the Government of Maharashtra held its first parade on the lines of the Delhi Republic Day parade along the entire stretch of Marine Drive. IAF airshow, October 17, 2004 Bombay Marathon (every year since) 9 February 2004 — an international marathon. International Fleet Review 19 February 2001 — The world's major navies took part in the IFR. French Festival 1988."
"Marine Drive, Mumbai"
Demographics
Religious significance
Places to Visit
"Joshimath जोशीमठ Joshimath town Ropeway at Joshimath to Auli Joshimath Show map of Uttarakhand Joshimath Show map of India Location in Uttarakhand, India Coordinates: 30°34′N 79°34′E﻿ / ﻿30.57°N 79.57°E﻿ / 30.57; 79.57Coordinates: 30°34′N 79°34′E﻿ / ﻿30.57°N 79.57°E﻿ / 30.57; 79.57 Country  India State Uttarakhand District Chamoli Population (2001)  • Total 13,202 Languages  • Official Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Vehicle registration UK Website http://chamoli.nic.in"
"Jyotirmath, also known as Joshimath is a city and a municipal board in Chamoli District in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. Located at a height of 6150 feet,[1] it is gateway to several Himalayan mountain climbing expeditions, trekking trails and pilgrim centres like Badrinath.[2] It is home to one of the four cardinal pīthas established by Adi Shankara.[3]"
"As of 2001 India census,[4] Joshimath had a population of 13,202. Males constitute 61% of the population and females 39%. Joshimath has an average literacy rate of 77%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 83%, and female literacy is 67%. In Joshimath, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age."
Jyotir Math monastery
"Jyotirmath is the uttarāmnāya matha or northern monastery, one of the four cardinal institutions established by Adi Shankara, the others being those at Shringeri, Puri and Dwaraka. Their heads are titled ""Shankaracharya"". According to the tradition initiated by Adi Shankara, this matha is in charge of the Atharvaveda. Jyotirmath is close to the pilgrimage town of Badrinath. This place can be a base station for travellers going to Guru Gobind Ghat or the Valley of Flowers National Park. The temple Narasimha, is enshrined Badrinarayan along with a pantheon of deities. The presiding deity Lord Narasimha is believed to have been established by Adi Sankara. It is one of the ""Divya Desams"", the 108 temples of Vishnu revered by the 12 Tamil poet-saints or Alvars.[5]"
Shankaracharya Math This is the math established by Adi Shankaracharya in North India. The Math is having temple of Badrinarayan and Rajrajeshwari Devi. It has a sacred cave where Adi Shankaracharya supposedly undertook tapasya.
"Narsinh Temple This is an ancient temple of Lord Vishnu in Narsingh Avtar and main temple of Joshimath. It has idol of Lord Narsingh, which is considered established by Shankaracharya. As per local belief, the right hand of this idol has become as thin as hair. On the day when it will break, the mountains Jay-Vijay (which are situated on a way to Badrinath) shall join and become one and Lord Badrinath of Badrinath temple will disappear from present temple and re-appear as black stone (Shaligram) at new place called Bhavishya Badri, which is situated at a distance of 10 km from Joshimath. When Badrinath temple remain closed during winter every year, one idol of Lord Badri is brought to Narsinh temple and worshiped for six months."
"Bhavishya Kedar Temple As Per local belief, present Kedarnath will disappear along with Badrinath and re-appear in Bhavishya Kedar temple at Joshimath. This temple has small shivling."
"Ropeway A Ropeway to Auli is popular among tourists and one of the longest ropeway in Asia. It is open only during the winter season and costs more than Rs 700 for a journey. Very often, the ropeway is always under repair and tourists may have to take a taxi to go to Auli."
Kalpeshwer [6] Kapleshwar is situated near the beautiful village called Urgam which is in a valley. Urgam is off the highway NH-58 and is reached from Helang which is situated at about 18Km from Joshimath. There are sometimes shared vans from Helang to Nyari/Urgam before noon. Public bus transportation is available everyday from Joshimath to Helang from 5AM to 7AM.
"Bhavnath is a small village in the Junagadh district of Gujarat, India. It sits near the Girnar mountain range, close to Girnar Taleti, the place from where pilgrims have to ascend on foot to get to temples on Girnar hills."
Bhavnath Mahadev Temple
"Junagah - Girnar, Gujarat - India (3418386622)"
"The Bhavnath Mahadev temple is a shrine ensconced in myths and legends of the Puranic era, at the base of Mount Girnar in Bhavnath village. The Shiva ling here is said to have emerged of its own divine intention. Reportedly, when Shiva and Parvati were traveling over the Girnar Hills their divine garment fell over the present Mrigi Kund, making this place an auspicious site for lord Shiva worshipers. Even today, the naga bavas [Naked sadhus] bathe in the holy Mrigi Kund before joining the Mahashivaratri procession. The fair itself is so ancient that its precise origins are unknown. [1]"
Girnar Mountain
There are two main annual festivals: Maha Shivaratri and Girnar Lili Parikrama.[2]
"The Bhavnath fair is a five-day occasion in Magha month of Hindu calendar, in the month of February-March, culminating with the most auspicious worship of God Shiva, at midnight of Maha Shivaratri, which is thronged by hundreds of Naga Sadhus [naked Sadhus] of Dashanami Sampradaya, taking dip at Mrugi kund (tank) and offering their prayers at the temple. People believe that God Shiva himself visits the shrine here on this holiest day. Devotees go around the holy hills of Girnar, before the fair. Lakhs of pilgrims from Mewar, Kutch and Gujarat visit the temple at this time, as also foreign tourists, enchanted by the rosaries and sacred statues sold on stalls, by sellers from far Ayodhya and Mathura and elsewhere, and not to miss display of the Naga sadhus' Hatha yoga and such occult practices. The whole place resounds with music and blowing of auspicious conch shells, tungis, and turis, with the Naga Sadhus on their elephants, holding Hindu religious flags in their hands, preceded by a decorated statue of Lord Dattatreya, in a palanquin. [3][4]"
Regional versions
Versions in other Dharmic Religions
Versions outside India
Contemporary versions
Screen
Stage
Comic series
Footnotes
Sanskrit versions
The following are among the versions of the Ramayana that have emerged outside India:
East Asia
"China, Tibet - found in several manuscripts from Dunhuang[16] Yunnan - Langka Sip Hor (Tai Lü language) Japan - Ramaenna or Ramaensho"
Southeast Asia
"Cambodia - Reamker Indonesia: Bali - Ramakavaca Java - Kakawin Ramayana, Yogesvara Ramayana Sumatera - Ramayana Swarnadwipa Laos - Phra Lak Phra Lam, Gvay Dvorahbi Malaysia - Hikayat Seri Rama, Hikayat Maharaja Wana Myanmar (Burma) - Yama Zatdaw (Yamayana) Philippines Mindanao - Maharadia Lawana, Darangen (Moro) Thailand - Ramakien Kingdom of Lan Na - Phommachak"
South Asia
West Asia
"Contemporary prose versions of the epic Ramayana include Sri Ramayana Darshanam by Dr. K. V. Puttappa in Kannada and Ramayana Kalpavrikshamu by Viswanatha Satyanarayana in Telugu, both of which have been awarded the Jnanpith Award. A prose version called Geet Ramayan in Marathi by G.D. Madgulkar was rendered in music by Sudhir Phadke and is considered to be a masterpiece of Marathi literature. The popular Indian author R. K. Narayan wrote a shortened prose interpretation of the epic. In addition, Ramesh Menon wrote a single-volume edition of the Ramayana, which has received praise from scholars. A short version with a somewhat contemporary feel, influenced, according to the author, by contemporary representations of guerrilla warfare, appeared in Martin Buckley's Ramayana-based travelogue, An Indian Odyssey (Random House London, 2008). C Rajgopalachari, India's only Indian Governor General, also wrote a single volume Ramayana, published by Bhavans in 1957. In September 2006, the first issue of Ramayan 3392 A.D. was published by Virgin Comics, featuring the Ramayana as re-envisioned by author Deepak Chopra and filmmaker Shekhar Kapur."
"The Ramayana has been adapted on screen as well, most notably as the television series Ramayan by producer Ramanand Sagar, which is based primarily on the Ramcharitmanas and Valmiki's Ramayana and, at the time, was the most popular series in Indian television history. In the late 1990s, Sanjay Khan made a series called Jai Hanuman, recounting tales from the life of Hanuman and related characters from the Ramayana."
"Starting in 1978, and under the supervision of Baba Hari Dass, the Ramayana has been performed every year by Mount Madonna School in Watsonville,[17] California. Currently, it is the largest yearly, Western version of the epic being performed. It takes the form of a colorful musical with custom costumes, sung and spoken dialog, jazz-rock orchestration and dance. This performance takes place in a large audience theater setting usually in June, in San Jose, CA.[18] Baba Hari Dass has thought acting arts, costume-attire design, masks making, and choreography to bring alive characters of Sri Ram, Sita, Hanuman, Lakshmana, Shiva, Parvati, Vibhishan, Jatayu, Sugriva, Surpanakha, Ravana and his rakshasa court, Meghnaad, Kumbhakarna, and the army of monkeys and demons."
Artist Vikas Goel and writer Vijayendra Mohanty have created a ten-part comic series called Ravanayan that presents the story of Ramayana from Ravana's perspective.[20]
"Rama (right) seated on the shoulders of Hanuman, battles the demon-king Ravana"
"Depending on the methods of counting, as many as three hundred[1][2] versions of the Indian epic poem, the Ramayana, are known to exist. The oldest version is generally recognized to be the Sanskrit version attributed to the sage Valmiki."
"The Ramayana has spread to many Asian countries outside of India, including Burma, Indonesia, Cambodia, Laos, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, Malaysia, Japan, Mongolia, Vietnam and China.[3][4] The original Valmiki version has been adapted or translated into various regional languages, which have often been marked more or less by plot twists and thematic adaptations. Some of the important adaptations of the classic tale include the 12th-century Tamil language Ramavataram, 14th-century Telugu language Sri Ranganatha Ramayanam, the Khmer Reamker, the Old Javanese Kakawin Ramayana, and the Thai Ramakien, the Lao Phra Lak Phra Lam, and the Burmese Yama Zatdaw."
"The manifestation of the core themes of the original Ramayana is far broader even than can be understood from a consideration of the different languages in which it appears, as its essence has been expressed in a diverse array of regional cultures and artistic mediums. For instance, the Ramayana has been expressed or interpreted in Lkhaon Khmer dance theatre, in the Mappila Songs of the Muslims of Kerala and Lakshadweep,[5] in the Indian operatic tradition of Yakshagana, and in the epic paintings still extant on, for instance, the walls of Thailand's Wat Phra Kaew palace temple. In Indonesia, the tales of the Ramayana appear reflected in ballet performances, masked danced drama, and Wayang shadow puppetry.[6] Angkor Wat in Siem Reap also has mural scenes from the epic Battle of Lanka on one of its outer walls."
"Below are a few of the most prominent Sanskrit versions of the Ramayana. Some primarily recount Valmiki’s narrative, while others focus more on peripheral stories and/or philosophical expositions:"
"Adhyatma Ramayana or spiritual Ramayana is extracted from the Brahmananda Purana, traditionally ascribed to Vyasa. It is thought to be the inspiration for Tulsidas’ Ramcharitmanas in Awadhi. While the Valmiki Ramayana emphasizes Rama’s human nature, the Adhyatam Ramayana tells the story from the perspective of his divinity. It is organized into seven Kandas, parallel to Valmiki’s. Vasistha Ramayana (more commonly known as Yoga Vasistha) is traditionally attributed to Valmiki. It is principally a dialogue between Vasistha and Rama in which Vasistha advances many of the principle tenets of Advaita Vedanta. It includes many anecdotes and illustrative stories, but does not recount Valmiki’s story of Rama in detail. Laghu Yoga Vasishtha, by Abhinanda of Kashmir, is an abbreviated version of the Yoga Vasistha.[7] Ananda Ramayana is traditionally attributed to Valmiki. While it briefly recounts the traditional story of Rama, it is composed primarily of stories peripheral, though related, to Valmiki’s narrative. These include Ravana’s abduction of Sita and Rama’s installment of the Shiva Lingam at Rameswaram.[8] Agastya Ramayana is also traditionally attributed to Agastya. Adbhuta Ramayana, traditionally attributed to Valmiki, includes related stories of Rama. Its emphasis is on the role of Sita, and includes an expanded story of the circumstances of her birth as well as an account of her defeat of Ravana's older brother, also known as Ravana but with 1000 heads. The Ramayana story is also recounted within other Sanskrit texts, including: the Mahabharata (in the Ramokhyana Parva of the Vana Parva);[9] Bhagavata Purana contains a concise account of Rama’s story in its ninth skandha;[10] brief versions also appear in the Vishnu Purana as well as in the Agni Purana. An eleventh-century Sanskrit play entitled Mahanataka by Hanumat relates the story of Rama in nine, ten, or fourteen acts, depending on recension.[11] A sixth-century manuscript Dasa Griba Rakshash Charitram Vadha contains five kandas: Balakanda and Uttarakanda are missing. This version portrays Rama as more of a human than god.[12]"
Rama is shown about to offer his eyes to make up the full number - 108 - of lotus blossoms needed in the puja that he must offer to the goddess Durga to gain her blessing. Scene from Krittivasi Ramayan.
Some noteworthy examples of these additional renderings of the Ramayana tale include:
Versions of Ramayana
"Andhra Pradesh - The Sri Ranganatha Ramayanam was adapted by Gona Budda Reddy and is the Telugu version of the Ramayana. The Molla Ramayanamu was adapted by poet Molla. The most extensive work in Telugu is that of Sri Viswanadha Satyanarayana, Srimadramayana Kalpavriksham. This is perhaps a free re-telling of the Valmiki Ramayana. It was awarded the first jnanpith award in Telugu, for the poet who was later accaimed as the Kavi Samrat. Assam - Saptakanda Ramayana, The Assamese Katha Ramayana or Kotha Ramayana in the 14th century by Madhava Kandali. Bengal - The Bengali Krittivasi Ramayan written by Krittibas Ojha in the 15th century. Goa - Ramayanu written by Krishnadasa Shama in the 15th century in Kardalipura, Goa in Konkani, manuscripts found in Portugal.[13][14] Gujarat - The Tulsi-Krta Ramayana is a Gujarati adaptation of Tulsidas' Ramcharitamanas in the 17th century, by the poet Premanand Swami. Jammu and Kashmir - The Kashmiri Ramavatara Charita was written in the 19th century. Karnataka - The Kannada versions of the Ramayana – the Kumudendu Ramayana(a Jain version), written in the 13th century and the Kumara-Valmiki Torave Ramayana, written in the 16th century. There is another version titled Ramachandra Charita Purana written by Nagachandra during the 13th century. Kerala - The Malayalam language Kannassa Ramayanam written by Niranam Rama Panicker in the 16th century, Adhyatma Ramayanam Kilipattu written by Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan in the 16th century and ""Mappila Ramayanam."" among the Muslims.[15] Maharashtra - The Marathi Bhavartha Ramayana written by Eknath in the 16th century. There is also reference of a Ramayana being translated into old Marathi during the 12th or 13th century. Orissa - The Oriya Dandi Ramayana or Jagamohan Ramayana was adapted by Balaram Das in the 16th century. Tamil Nadu - The Tamil Kambaramayanam, a popular version, written by poet Kamban in the 12th century. Uttar Pradesh (Awadh) - The Ramcharitmanas written by Goswami Tulsidas in the 16th century is the Ramayana version popular in North India."
"Buddhism - Dasarata Jataka. This version is notable for depicting Rama and Sita as siblings who marry. Such sibling marriages are a common symbolic imagery in early Buddhist literature to denote purity of a dynasty. As the Buddha is supposed to have come from the Ikshvaku clan (of Rama) this symbolised his dynastic merits. Jainism - Paumachariyam, the most influential among the Jain versions is written as a polemic against Sanskrit versions asserting that all characters in the Ramayana were mere mortals who engaged in conflict over moral issues. The only superhuman feat mentioned is Ravana's ability to fly through the clouds (meghavahana). All characters are depicted as Jains and the Rama, Sita and Lakshmana visit Jain pilgrimage sites rather than ashrams (as in Valmiki ramayana) during their stay in the forest."
Background
Bibliography
Novels
Poetry
Children's book
Non-fiction
"The Telegraph (""Love split delayed Suitable Boy sequel"") Emory biography British Council Bio Vikram Seth at the Internet Movie Database ""Poetic License"" by Cynthia Haven, ""Stanford Magazine,"" May/June 1999 BOMB Magazine interview with Vikram Seth by Ameena Meer"
"Vikram Seth CBE (/ˈsɛθ/; born 20 June 1952) is an Indian novelist and poet. He has written several novels and poetry books. He has received several awards including Padma Shri, Sahitya Akademi Award, Pravasi Bharatiya Samman, WH Smith Literary Award and Crossword Book Award. Seth's collections of poetry such as Mappings and Beastly Tales are notable contributions to the Indian English language poetry canon."
"Vikram Seth was born on 20 June 1952 in Kolkata, West Bengal.[2] His father, Premnath Seth, was an executive of Bata Shoes and his mother, Leila Seth, a barrister by training, became the first female Chief Justice of Delhi High Court.[3]"
"He studied at St. Michael's High School, Patna and at the The Doon School in Dehradun.[2] After graduating from Doon, Seth went to Tonbridge School, England, to complete his A-levels,[4][5][6] He also studied at St. Xavier's High School, Patna.[7] Later he moved to London and read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He then pursued a Ph.D. in Economics at Stanford University.[2][8][9]"
"Having lived in London for many years, Seth maintains residences near Salisbury, England, where he is a participant in local literary and cultural events, having bought and renovated the house of the Anglican poet George Herbert in 1996,[10] and in Jaipur, India."
"In 2006, he became a leader of the campaign against Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, a law against homosexuality.[11] His mother has written about Seth's sexuality and her coming to terms with it in her memoir.[12]"
"Seth has published six books of poetry and three novels. In 1980, he wrote poem of Mappings, his first poem. The publication of A Suitable Boy, a 1,349-page novel, propelled Seth into the public limelight and won the WH Smith Literary Award in 1993. An Equal Music, published in 1999, deals with the troubled love life of a violinist. Seth's work Two Lives published in 2005 is a memoir of the marriage of his great uncle and aunt."
"In addition to The Golden Gate, Seth has written other works of poetry including Mappings (1980), The Humble Administrator's Garden (1985), All You Who Sleep Tonight (1990) and Three Chinese Poets (1992). His children's book, Beastly Tales from Here and There (1992) consists of ten stories about animals. He has authored a travel book, From Heaven Lake: Travels through Sinkiang and Tibet (1983), an account of a journey through Tibet, China and Nepal. Vikram Seth was also commissioned by the English National Opera to write a libretto based on the Greek legend of Arion and the Dolphin. The opera was performed for the first time in June 1994."
Seth was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2001.
Beastly Tales from Here and There (1991)
"1983 – Thomas Cook Travel Book Award for From Heaven Lake: Travels Through Sinkiang and Tibet 1985 – Commonwealth Poetry Prize (Asia) for The Humble Administrator's Garden 1988 – Sahitya Akademi Award for The Golden Gate 1993 – Irish Times International Fiction Prize (shortlist) for A Suitable Boy 1994 – Commonwealth Writers Prize (Overall Winner, Best Book) for A Suitable Boy 1994 – WH Smith Literary Award for A Suitable Boy 1999 – Crossword Book Award for An Equal Music 2001 – Order of the British Empire, Officer 2001 – EMMA (BT Ethnic and Multicultural Media Award) for Best Book/Novel for An Equal Music 2005 – Pravasi Bharatiya Samman 2007 – Padma Shri in Literature & Education[22] 2013 – The 25 Greatest Global Living Legends In India"
Awards and honours
Journalistic career
"Sir Mark Tully Born William Mark Tully (1935-10-24) 24 October 1935 Tollygunge, Calcutta, Bengal Presidency, British Raj Education Marlborough College Trinity Hall, Cambridge Occupation Journalist, writer Signature"
"Sir William Mark Tully, KBE (born 24 October 1935)[1][2] is the former Bureau Chief of BBC, New Delhi. He worked with BBC for a period of 30 years before resigning in July 1994.[3] He held the position of Chief of Bureau, BBC, Delhi for 20 years.[4] He has received awards and he has also written books. Tully is also a member of The Oriental Club."
"Tully was born in Tollygunge, British India.[5] His father was a British businessman who was a partner in one of the leading managing agencies of the British Raj. He spent the first decade of his childhood in India, although without being allowed to socialise with Indian people; at the age of four, he was sent to a ""British boarding school"" in Darjeeling,[6][7] before going to England for further schooling from the age of nine."
"He was educated at Twyford School, Marlborough College and at Trinity Hall, Cambridge, where he studied Theology.[6] After Cambridge, he intended becoming a priest in the Church of England but abandoned the vocation after just two terms at Lincoln Theological College, admitting later that he had doubts about ""trusting [his] sexuality to behave as a Christian priest"".[2]"
"Tully joined the BBC in 1964 and moved back to India in 1965 to work as the India Correspondent.[2][8][9] He covered all major incidents in South Asia during his tenure, ranging from Indo-Pakistan conflicts, Bhopal gas tragedy, Operation Blue Star (and the subsequent assassination of Indira Gandhi, anti-Sikh riots), Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi to the Demolition of Babri Masjid.[10][11][12] He was barred from entering India during Emergency in 1975–77 when Prime Minister Mrs Gandhi had imposed censorship curbs on the media."
"Tully resigned from BBC in July 1994, after an argument with John Birt, the then Director General. He accused Birt of ""running the corporation by fear"" and ""turning the BBC into a secretive monolith with poor ratings and a demoralised staff"".[3] In 1994 he presented an episode of BBCs Great Railway Journeys ""Karachi to The Khyber Pass"" travelling by train across Pakistan. Since 1994 he has been working as a freelance journalist and broadcaster based in New Delhi.[8][10] He is currently the regular presenter of the weekly BBC Radio 4 programme Something Understood.[13]"
"Tully was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1985 and was awarded the Padma Shree in 1992.[6] He was knighted in the New Year Honours 2002,[16] receiving a KBE, and in 2005 he received the Padma Bhushan.[17] BAFTA in 1985 for lifelong achievement[18]"
"No Full Stops in India, one of Mark Tully's best-known books, was published in 1992"
"Tully's first book on India Amritsar: Mrs Gandhi's Last Battle (1985) was co-authored with his colleague in BBC Delhi, Satish Jacob; the book dealt with the events leading up to Operation Blue Star, the Indian army's attack on Sikh fighters in the Golden Temple at Amritsar."
"His next book Raj to Rajiv: 40 Years of Indian Independence was written with Zareer Masani, and was based on a BBC radio series of the same name. In the US, this book was published under the title India: Forty Years of Independence."
"Tully's No Full Stops in India (1988), a collection of journalistic essays, was published in the US as The Defeat of a Congress-man. The Independent wrote that ""Tully's profound knowledge and sympathy .. unravels a few of the more bewildering and enchanting mysteries of the subcontinent.""[19]"
"Tully's only work of fiction, The Heart of India, was published in 1995."
"In 2002 came India in Slow Motion, written in collaboration with Gillian Wright and published by Viking. Reviewing the book in The Observer, Michael Holland wrote of Tully that ""Few foreigners manage to get under the skin of the world's biggest democracy the way he does, and fewer still can write about it with the clarity and insight he brings to all his work.""[20]"
"Tully later wrote India's Unending Journey (2008) and India: The Road Ahead (2011), published in India under the title Non-Stop India."
"In the area of religion, Tully has written An Investigation into The Lives of Jesus (1996) to accompany the BBC series of the same name, and Mother (1992) on Mother Teresa."
"The anonymously authored Hindutva Sex and Adventure is a novel featuring a main character with strong similarities to Tully. Tully himself has stated that ""I am amazed that Roli Books should publish such thinly disguised plagiarism, and allow the author to hide in a cavalier manner behind a nom-de-plume. The book is clearly modelled on my career, even down to the name of the main character. That character's journalism is abysmal, and his views on Hindutva and Hinduism do not in any way reflect mine. I would disagree with them profoundly"".[21]"
Film
Awards
Selected works
Career
"Anita Desai at British Council: Literature Anita Desai discusses Fasting, Feasting on the BBC World Book Club Voices from the Gaps SAWNET bio MIT page Revisiting Anita Desai's ""In Custody"" for the Agrégation-Relire ""Un héritage exorbitant"" d'A. Desai Anita Desai at the Internet Movie Database"
"Anita Desai Born Anita Mazumdar (1937-06-24) 24 June 1937 Mussorie, Garhwal Kingdom (present-day India) Occupation Writer, professor Nationality Indian Alma mater University of Delhi Period 1963–present Genre Fiction Children Kiran Desai"
"Anita Mazumdar Desai (born 24 June 1937) is an Indian novelist and the Emerita John E. Burchard Professor of Humanities at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. As a writer she has been shortlisted for the Booker Prize three times; she received a Sahitya Academy Award in 1978 for her novel Fire on the Mountain, from the Sahitya Academy, India's National Academy of Letters;[1] she won the British Guardian Prize for The Village by the Sea.[2]"
"Anita Mazumdar was born in Jaipur, India, to a German mother, Toni Nime, and a Bengali businessman, D. N. Mazumdar.[3] She grew up speaking German at home and Bengali, Urdu, Hindi and English outside the house. However, she did not visit Germany until later in life as an adult. She first learned to read and write in English at school and as a result English became her ""literary language"".[4] She began to write in English at the age of seven and published her first story at the age of nine.[3]"
"She was a student at Queen Mary's Higher Secondary School in Delhi and received her B.A. in English literature in 1957 from the Miranda House of the University of Delhi. The following year she married Ashvin Desai, the director of a computer software company and author of the book Between Eternities: Ideas on Life and The Cosmos. They have four children, including Booker Prize-winning novelist Kiran Desai. Her children were taken to Thul (near Alibagh) for weekends, where Desai set her novel The Village by the Sea.[3] For that work she won the 1983 Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, a once-in-a-lifetime book award judged by a panel of British children's writers.[2]"
"Desai published her first novel, Cry The Peacock, in 1963. She considers Clear Light of Day (1980) her most autobiographical work as it is set during her coming of age and also in the same neighbourhood in which she grew up.[5] In 1984 she published In Custody – about an Urdu poet in his declining days – which was shortlisted for the Booker Prize. In 1993 she became a creative writing teacher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.[6] Her novel, The Zigzag Way, set in 20th-century Mexico, appeared in 2004 and her latest collection of short stories, The Artist of Disappearance was published in 2011."
"In 1993, her novel In Custody was adapted by Merchant Ivory Productions into an English film by the same name, directed by Ismail Merchant, with a screenplay by Shahrukh Husain.[8] It won the 1994 President of India Gold Medal for Best Picture and stars Shashi Kapoor, Shabana Azmi and Om Puri."
"1978 – Winifred Holtby Memorial Prize – Fire on the Mountain 1978 – Sahitya Akademi Award (National Academy of Letters Award) – Fire on the Mountain 1980 – Shortlisted, Booker Prize for Fiction – Clear Light of Day 1983 – Guardian Children's Fiction Prize – The Village by the Sea: an Indian family story[2] 1984 – Shortlisted, Booker Prize for Fiction – In Custody 1993 – Neil Gunn Prize 1999 – Shortlisted, Booker Prize for Fiction: Fasting, Feasting 2000 – Alberto Moravia Prize for Literature (Italy) 2003 – Benson Medal of Royal Society of Literature[9] 2007 – Sahitya Akademi Fellowship[10] 2014 – Padma Bhushan"
Freedom struggle: early days
Face of Quit India movement
Countdown to Independence
Post-Independence
Legacy
External links
"Aruna Asaf Ali Born Aruna asaf ali 16 July 1909 Kalka, Punjab, British India Died 29 July 1996(1996-07-29) (aged 87) New Delhi, India Nationality Indian Alma mater Sacred Heart Convent Occupation Teacher, independence activist, politician, newspaper publisher Spouse(s) Asaf Ali (1888-1953) Awards Bharat Ratna (1997)"
"Aruna Asaf Ali (Bengali: অরুণা আসফ আলী) (16 July 1909 – 29 July 1996), born Aruna Ganguly, was an Indian independence activist. She is widely remembered for hoisting the Indian National Congress flag at the Gowalia Tank maidan in Bombay during the Quit India Movement, 1942."
"Aruna Asaf Ali was born (Aruna Ganguly) on 16 July 1909 in Kalka, Punjab, British India (now in Haryana, India) into a Bengali Brahmo family. Her father Upendranath Ganguly hailed from Barisal district of Eastern Bengal (now Bangladesh) but settled in the United Province. He was a restaurant owner. Her mother Ambalika Devi was the daughter of Trailokyanath Sanyal, a renowned Brahmo leader who wrote many Brahmo hymns. Upendranath Ganguly's younger brother Dhirendranath Ganguly (D G) was one of the earliest film directors.[1] Another brother, Nagendranath, was a university professor who married Nobel Prize winner Rabindranath Tagore's only surviving daughter Mira Devi.[2] Aruna's sister Purnima Banerjee was a member of the Constituent Assembly of India."
"Aruna was educated at Sacred Heart Convent in Lahore and then at All Saints' College in Nainital. After her graduation, she worked as a teacher at the Gokhale Memorial School in Calcutta. She met Asaf Ali, a leader in the Congress party, in Allahabad. They got married in 1928, despite parental opposition on grounds of religion and age (he was a Muslim and her senior by more than 20 years).[3]"
She was an active member of Congress Party after marrying Asaf Ali and participated in public processions during the Salt Satyagraha. She was arrested on the charge that she was a vagrant and hence not released in 1931 under the Gandhi-Irwin Pact which stipulated release of all political prisoners. Other women co-prisoners refused to leave the premises unless she was also released and gave in only after Mohandas K. Gandhi intervened. A public agitation secured her release.
"In 1932, she was held prisoner at the Tihar Jail where she protested the indifferent treatment of political prisoners by launching a hunger strike. Her efforts resulted in an improvement of conditions in the Tihar Jail but she was moved to Ambala and was subjected to solitary confinement. She was politically not very active after her release."
"On 8 August 1942, the All India Congress Committee passed the Quit India resolution at the Bombay session. The government responded by arresting the major leaders and all members of the Congress Working Committee and thus tried to pre-empt the movement from success.Young Aruna Asaf Ali presided over the remainder of the session on 9 August and hoisted the Congress flag at the Gowalia Tank maidan. This marked the commencement of the movement. The police fired upon the assembly at the session. Aruna was dubbed the Heroine of the 1942 movement for her bravery in the face of danger and was called Grand Old Lady of the Independence movement in her later years. Despite absence of direct leadership, spontaneous protests and demonstrations were held all over the country, as an expression of desire of India’s youth to achieve independence."
"An arrest warrant was issued in her name but she went underground to evade the arrest and started underground movement in year 1942 . Her property was seized and sold. In the meanwhile, she also edited Inquilab, a monthly magazine of the Congress Party, along with Ram Manohar Lohia. In a 1944 issue, she exhorted youth to action by asking them to forget futile discussions about violence and non-violence and join the revolution. Leaders such as Jayaprakash Narayan and Aruna Asaf Ali were described as ""the Political children of Gandhi but recent students of Karl Marx."" The government announced a reward of 5,000 rupees for her capture. She fell ill and was for a period hiding in Dr Joshi's Hospital in Karol Bagh in Delhi. Mahatma Gandhi sent her a hand-written note to her to come out of hiding and surrender herself – as her mission was accomplished and as she could utilize the reward amount for the Harijan cause. However, she came out of hiding only after the warrant against her was withdrawn in 1946. She treasured the note from the Mahatma and it adorned her drawing room. However, she also faced criticism from Gandhi for her support of the Royal Indian Navy Mutiny, a movement she saw as the single greatest unifying factor of Hindus and Muslims at a time that was the peak of the movement for Pakistan."
"She was a member of the Congress Socialist Party, a caucus within the Congress Party for activists with socialist leanings. Disillusioned with the progress of the Congress Party on socialism she joined a new party, Socialist Party in 1948. She however left that party along with Edatata Narayanan and they visited Moscow along with Rajani Palme Dutt. Both of them joined the Communist Party of India in the early 1950s. On the personal front, she was bereaved when Asaf Ali died in 1953."
"In 1954, she helped form the National Federation of Indian Women, the women's wing of CPI but left the party in 1956 following Nikita Khrushchev's disowning of Stalin. In 1958, she was elected the first Mayor of Delhi. She was closely associated with social activists and secularists of her era like Krishna Menon, Vimla Kapoor, Guru Radha Kishan, Premsagar Gupta, Rajani Palme joti, Sarla Sharma and Subhadra Joshi for social welfare and development in Delhi."
"She and Narayanan started Link publishing house and published a daily newspaper, Patriot and a weekly, Link the same year. The publications became prestigious due to patronage of leaders such as Jawaharlal Nehru, Krishna Menon and Biju Patnaik. Later she moved out of the publishing house due to internal politics, stunned by greed taking over the creed of her comrades. In 1964, she rejoined the Congress Party but stopped taking part in active politics. Despite reservations about the emergency, she remained close to Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi."
"She died in New Delhi on 29 July 1996, aged 87.[5]"
"Aruna Asaf Ali was awarded International Lenin Peace Prize for the year 1964 and the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in 1991.[6] She was awarded India’s second highest civilian honour, the Padma Vibhushan in her lifetime in 1992, and finally the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, posthumously in 1997.[7] In 1998, a stamp commemorating her was issued. Aruna Asaf Ali marg in New Delhi was named in her honour. All India Minorities Front distributes the Dr Aruna Asaf Ali Sadbhawana Award annually."
Aruna Asaf Ali
Padmaja Naidu (1900 – 2 May 1975[1]) was the daughter of Sarojini Naidu.[2]
"At the age of 21, she joined the Indian National Congress in Hyderabad. She was jailed for taking part in the ""Quit India"" movement in 1942. After Independence, she became the Governor of West Bengal. She was also associated with the Red Cross and was the chair of the Indian Red Cross from 1971 to 1972.[3]"
The Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling is named after her.
"↑ Bhargava, Gopal (2005). Land and People of Indian States and Union Territories. p. 521. Retrieved 2013-05-06.  ↑ ""Biography"".  ↑ Gandhi, Sonia (2004). Two Alone, Two Together. p. 18. ISBN 0-14-303245-3. "
Post-independence
Freedom Movement and Independence
"Sucheta Kriplani (née Mazumdar, 25 June 1908[1] – 1 December 1974[2][3]) was an Indian freedom fighter and politician. She was India's first woman Chief Minister, serving as the head of the Uttar Pradesh government from 1963 to 1967."
"She was born in Ambala, Punjab (now in Haryana) to a Bengali Brahmo family. She studied at Indraprastha College[4] and Panjab University before becoming a Professor of Constitutional History at Banaras Hindu University.[5] In 1936, she married Acharya Kriplani, a prominent figure of the Indian National Congress, who was twenty years her senior. The marriage was opposed by both families, as well as by Gandhi himself, although he eventually relented.[6]"
"Like her contemporaries Aruna Asaf Ali and Usha Mehta, she came to the forefront during the Quit India Movement. She later worked closely with Mahatma Gandhi during the Partition riots. She accompanied him to Noakhali in 1946. She was one of the few women who were elected to the Constituent Assembly and was part of the subcommittee that drafted the Indian Constitution. She became a part of the subcommittee that was handed over the task of laying down the charter for the constitution of India. On 14 August 1947 she sang Vande Mataram in the Independence Session of the Constituent Assembly, a few minutes before Nehru delivered his famous ""Tryst with Destiny"" speech.[7] She was also the founder of All India Mahilla Congress, established in 1940."
"Kriplani with (from left to right) Ulla Lindström, Barbara Castle, Cairine Wilson and Eleanor Roosevelt in 1949."
"After the independence, she remained involved with politics. For the first Lok Sabha elections in 1952, she contested from New Delhi on a KMPP ticket: she had joined the short-lived party founded by her husband the year before. She defeated the Congress candidate Manmohini Sahgal. Five years later, she was reelected from the same constituency, but this time she was the Congress candidate.[8] She was elected one last time to the Lok Sabha in 1967, from Gonda constituency in Uttar Pradesh.[5]"
"Meanwhile, she had also become a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. From 1960 to 1963, she served as Minister of Labour, Community Development and Industry in the UP government.[5] In October 1963, she became the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, the first woman to hold that position in any Indian state. The highlight of her tenure was the firm handling of a state employees strike. The first-ever strike by the state employees which continued for 62 days took place during her regime. She relented only when the employees' leaders agreed for compromise. Kriplani kept her reputation as a firm administrator by refusing their demand for pay hike."
She retired from politics in 1971 and remained in seclusion till her death in 1974.
Sucheta Kriplani
"Sarla Thakral Sarla Thakral Born 1914 New Delhi, India Died 15 March 2008(2008-03-15) Spouse(s) P. D. Sharma , R.P Thakral"
"Sarla Thakral (1914 – 15 March 2008) was the first Indian woman to fly an aircraft.[1][2][3] Born in 1914, she earned an aviation pilot license in 1936 at the age of 21 and flew a Gypsy Moth solo. She had a four-year-old daughter. After obtaining the initial licence, she persevered and completed one thousand hours of flying in the aircraft owned by the Lahore Flying Club. Her husband P. D. Sharma whom she married at 16 and comes from a family which had 9 pilots encouraged her to achieve it. Sharma had been the first Indian to get his airmail pilot's license, flying between Karachi and Lahore; his wife would be first woman in India to attain her 'A’ license when she accumulated over 1000 hours of flying.[4][5]"
"Tragically, Captain Sharma died in an airplane crash in 1939. After some time, his young widow tried to apply to train for her commercial pilot license, but World War II had begun and civil training was suspended. With a child to raise, and needing to earn her livelihood, Thakral abandoned her plans to become a commercial pilot, returning to Lahore and attending the Mayo School of Art where she trained in the Bengal school of painting, obtaining a diploma in fine arts."
"Thakral was a dedicated follower of the Arya Samaj, a spiritual community dedicated to following the teachings of the Vedas.[6] Within this community, remarriage was a possibility for Thakral."
Sarla Thakral
Poetry
Career
Death
"Savitribai Phule Born 3 January 1831 Naigaon, British India Died 10 March 1897 Nationality Indian Spouse(s) Jyotirao Phule"
"Savitribai Jyotirao Phule (3 January 1831  – 10 March 1897) was an Indian social reformer and poet. Along with her husband, Jyotirao Phule, she played an important role in improving women's rights in India during British rule.[1] Phule along with her husband founded the first women's school at Bhide Wada in Pune in 1848. She worked very hard to abolish discrimination and unfair treatment of people based on caste and gender. She is regarded as an important figure of the social reform movement in Maharashtra. Savitribai Jyotirao Phule is also known as the first Indian female teacher."
"Savitribai Phule was born in 1831 in Naigaon, Maharashtra. Her family were wealthy farmers.[2]Her father was patil(head of village).At the age of nine, she was married to twelve-year-old Jyotirao Phule in 1840. Savitribai and Jyotirao had no children of their own. However, she and her husband adopted Yashavantrao, a son born to a widowed Brahmin.[3]"
"When Jyotirao Phule started the native girls school in Pune in 1848, Savitribai was the first teacher of the school[4] Phule has been described as ""one of the first-generation modern Indian feminists, and an important contributor to world feminism in general, as she was both addressing and challenging not simply the question of gender in isolation but also issues related to caste and casteist patriarchy.""[2]"
"Savitribai and her adopted son, Yashwant, opened a clinic to treat those affected by the worldwide Third Pandemic of the bubonic plague when it appeared in the area around Nallasopara in 1897. The clinic was established at Sasane Mala, Hadapsar, near Pune, but out of the city in an area free of infection. Savitribai personally took patients to the clinic where her son served them. While caring for the patients, she contracted the disease herself. She died from it on 10 March 1897 while serving a plague patient.[2]"
"Savitribai Phule wrote many poems against discrimination and advised to get educated.[5][6] Two books of her poems were published posthumously, Kavya Phule (1934) and Bavan Kashi Subodh Ratnakar (1982)."
The Government of Maharashtra has instituted an award in her name to recognize women social reformers.
"In 2015, the University of Pune was renamed as Savitribai Phule Pune University in her honour.[7] On 10 March 1998 a stamp was released by India Post in honour of Phule."
Savitribai Phule
"Kamaljeet Sandhu is a former woman Indian athlete who won gold medal at 1970 Asian Games in 400 m race.She ran the distance in 57.3 seconds. She was the first Indian woman to win gold medal at any Asian games. She hails from Punjab state in India. She received Padma Shri award in 1971. . She participated in the Women's 400 metres at the 1972 Olympics, bowing out in the heats."
Bibliography
Life
"Lakshmibai Tilak (born 1868, died 1936) was a Marathi writer from Maharashtra, India."
"According to the social custom of her times, after her receiving limited formal education, she was married off by her parents at her age 11 to Narayan Waman Tilak."
"Narayan Waman Tilak was an accomplished Marathi poet. When he converted to Christianity, she at first was shocked. Gradually, however, she overcame her distaste, and eventually became a Christian herself. She tells this story with great simplicity in Agadi Step by Step.[1] With his encouragement, despite her limited formal education, Lakshmibai too composed some superb poetry. Further, she wrote her autobiography under the title Smruti Chitre (स्मृतिचित्रे), which turned out to be a masterpiece in Marathi literature. The autobiography was published in four parts during 1934 -1937. In 1950, E. Josephine Inkster translated it into English under the title I Follow After.[2]"
"Narayan Waman Tilak started to compose in Marathi an epic titled ""Khristayana"" (क्रिस्तायन) describing the works of Jesus Christ. However, he died after finishing ten of its chapters. Lakshmibai completed the epic by adding to it 64 chapters of her own."
Awards and distinctions
Swimming career
"Bula Choudhury (Born- 1970, Hugli, India) is an Arjuna awardee, Padma shri awardee, former India national women's swimming champion and elected as current MLA in May 2016 in West Bengal state of India.[1]"
"Her first national competition, at age nine, she dominated her age group by winning six gold medals in six events. She continued to improve, winning various junior and national championships, as well as six gold medals at the 1991 South Asian Federation Games."
"Choudhury started long-distance swimming in 1989 and crossed the English Channel that year. She won the 81-km (50- mile) Murshidabad Long Distance Swim in 1996, and in 1999 she crossed the English Channel again. In 2005 she became the first woman to have swum across sea channels off five continents—including the Strait of Gibraltar, the Tyrrhenian Sea, Cook Strait, Toroneos Gulf (Gulf of Kassándra) in Greece, the Catalina Channel off the California coast, and from Three Anchor Bay to Robben Island near Cape Town, South Africa. She is now is planning to establish a swimming academy in Kolkata."
She is the first woman to cross seven seas. She twice swam the English Channel first in 1989 and again in 1999. She was awarded the Arjuna Award in 1990. She was also awarded Padma Shri award.[1]
Work
Later life
Publications
"Anjolie Ela Menon Born 1940 West Bengal, India Occupation painter and muralist"
"Anjolie Ela Menon (born 1940) is one of India's leading contemporary artists. Her paintings are in several major collections. Most recently (2006), a major work ""Yatra"" was acquired by the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco, California. Her preferred medium is oil on masonite, though she has also worked in other media, including glass and water colour. She is a well known muralist. She was awarded the Padma Shree in 2000.[1] She lives and works in New Delhi."
"Anjolie Ela Menon was born on 17 July 1940, in Burnpur, Bengal [now in West Bengal] India of mixed Bengali and American parentage.[2] She went to Lawrence School, Lovedale in the Nilgiri Hills, Tamil Nadu. By the age of 15, when she left school, she had already sold a few paintings. Thereafter, she briefly studied at the Sir J.J. Institute of Applied Art, Mumbai and later earned a degree in English Literature from Delhi University, where she studied at the famous women's college, Miranda House. During this time, she was drawn to the works of Modigliani, and Indian painters, M F Husain and Amrita Shergil. At 18, she held a solo exhibition with fifty-three paintings of a variety of styles. Her creative brilliance got her a French Government scholarship to study at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris from 1959 to 1961. Before returning home, she travelled extensively in Europe and West Asia studying Romanesque and Byzantine art."
"Anjolie Ela Menon's preferred medium was oil on masonite, which she applied by using a series of translucent colours and thin washes. In addition to oil paintings and murals, she worked in several other mediums, including computer graphics and Murano glass. She is best known for her religious-themed works, portraits, and nudes that incorporated a vibrant colour palette and were rendered in a variety of styles ranging from cubism to techniques that recalled the artists of the European Renaissance. In 1997 she, for the first time displayed non-figurative work, including Buddhist abstracts. She represented India at the Paris, Algiers, and São Paulo Biennales and at three Triennales in New Delhi.[3]"
"Anjolie married her childhood love, Raja Menon, an Indian Navy officer, who later retired as an Admiral. Since marriage she has lived and worked in India, the US, several countries in Europe, Japan and the erstwhile USSR, and had over thirty five solo shows in these countries. She is also a well known muralist and has represented India at several shows."
"The Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India in 2000. The Limca book of Records. Lifetime achievement award 2013 by government of NCT of Delhi"
"Karuvaki (Odia: Karubaki,[1] Sanskrit: Charuvaki) was the second queen[2] of the third Mauryan emperor, Ashoka. She was also the mother of Ashoka's son, Prince Tivala."
Karuvaki
"Arpita Singh is an Indian artist. She was born in West Bengal, India.[1] Currently she lives in Nizamuddin East, New Delhi. She is married to fellow painter Paramjit Singh and they have a daughter, the artist Anjum Singh."
"Singh attended the School of Art, Delhi Polytechnic in New Delhi from 1954 to 1959. After she graduated she worked for the Indian Government's Cottage Industries Restoration Program. While she worked in the program she met traditional artists and weavers in India. This is said to have impacted her artwork. In the 1970s her paintings were mainly black and white abstracts.[2]"
But in the 1980s she started to paint Bengali folk paintings. In these paintings often have women as the subjects. Many of her paintings of women show them doing daily work and simple routines in their lives.[1] Originally when she started painting she was doing watercolors on paper which connected her painting to Indian tradition. But in the 1990s Singh started paint oil on canvas which was considered a dramatic shift. In some of her paintings of women the woman is portrayed nude. This is said to show the woman's vulnerability rather than showing her in a sexual sense. Singh's paintings are said to portray a woman's point of view about life in India.[2] She has had a number of exhibits all over the world both individual and group exhibits. Singh has also won a number of awards for her work.[3]
"All India Drawing Exhibition, Chandigarh in 1981 and 1992[3] Algeria Biennial, Algeria in 1987[3] Parishad Samman, Sahitya Kala Parishad, New Delhi in 1991[3] Padma Bhushan in 2011"
Art workshops and presentations
"Surekha is a contemporary Indian video artist whose works showcase themes including Indian identity and Womanhood.[1] She has been a full-time artist since 1996 and her video works have been shown at galleries outside India since 2001.[2] Her works are known for the mix of video and physical presence, highlighting inherent experiences.[3] Surekha has been exploring the possibilities of the video form, negotiating the public and private, locating the body as a site of contestation and appropriation. She uses photography and video to archive, document and perform. Surekha was born in Bangalore and has studied art at Ken school of Arts and Santiniketan, Viswabharati University. She has shown her works both in India and many international shows. Surekha lives and works in Bangalore."
"1993-2007 Mallya Aditi International school, Srishti School of Art & Design and Technology, Ken School of Arts, Chitrakala Parishat, Bangalore, CAVA, Mysore 2005 Malmo Art Academy, Lund art school, Boros textile school, Sweden 2003 Boros Textile School, Voland Art Academy, Sweden 2008 Cava Mysore/ Kalabhavan, Santiniketan, MSU, Baroda 2010 SN school, Hyderabad University. 2006 As panelist, Video Art from India, Tate Modern, London |"
Surekha
"Anupam Sud Born Anupam Sud 1944 Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India Known for artist, printmaker,"
"Anupam Sud (born 1944) is an artist who lives and works in Mandi, a small community on the outskirts of New Delhi. She was born in Punjab, though she spent much of her youth in the former British summer capital of Simla in Himachal Pradesh. Coming from a conservative family, her choice of an academic career and artistic pursuits over an arranged marriage was both brave and rare.[1]"
"Sud studied at the College of Art, Delhi from 1962 to 1967, during the same decade that Somnath Hore was retooling and revitalizing the college’s printmaking department. Anupam was the youngest member of “Group 8”, an association of artists at the college that was founded by Anupam’s teacher Jagmohan Chopra, and was dedicated to furthering an awareness of printmaking in India.[1]"
"Sud later studied printmaking at the Slade School of Fine Art, University College, London, from 1971 through 1972. It was after her return from Slade that Anupam Sud developed an intense interest in exploring clothed and unclothed human figures through the medium of etching. Anupam found inspiration in both male and female sexuality and identities. Overt takes on social issues are seldom found in Sud’s art, and her figures are often self-absorbed and brooding. However, through symbolism and metaphor Sud engages with socially relevant themes, and moody depictions of interrelations between the sexes are a favorite topic in her work. Sud’s etchings are made with the use of zinc plates, a difficult medium that requires both patience and precision.[2]"
"One of Sud’s best known bodies of work, the ""Dialogue Series"", expresses human communication between people of various sexes through a mood of mature, silent, acceptance. The ""Dialogue Series"" emphasizes human togetherness as intimate and non-verbal.[3]"
Professional life
"Surekha Yadav Born Surekha R. Bhosale (1965-09-02) 2 September 1965 Satara, Maharashtra, India Known for India's first female (locopilot) train driver Spouse(s) Shankar Yadav Children 2 Parent(s) Sonabai & Ramchandra Bhosale"
"Surekha Yadav née Surekha Shankar Yadav (born 2 September 1965) is a female locopilot (train driver) of the Indian Railways in India,.[1][2] She became India's first female train driver in 1988. She drove the first ""Ladies Special"" local train for Central Railways when it was first introduced in the four metro cities by Mamata Banerjee the then Railway Minister, in April 2000.[3][4] A momentous event in her career was on 8 March 2011, on the International Women's Day, when she became Asia's first woman train driver to drive the Deccan Queen from Pune to CST, through difficult but scenic topography,[3][5][6] where she was greeted by the then Mayor of Mumbai Shraddha Jadhav, at CST, the headquarter of Central Railway zone.[6] It was Surekha's dream-come-true as she drove one of the prestigious trains of the Central Railway, which carries the female of name; the Mumbai-Pune Railway Pravasi Sangh (association) strongly supported her to run this train.[7] However, a commonly heard comment on her driving is that ""Women don't drive railway engines'"".[1]"
"Surekha was born in Satara in Maharashtra on 2 September 1965 to Sonabai and Ramchandra Bhosale. Her father late.Ramchandra Bhosale was a farmer; she is the eldest of his five children.[8] She had initial schooling at Saint Paul Convent High School, Satara. After completion of schooling, she took admission for vocation training and then studied for a Diploma in Electrical Engineering from the Government Polytechnic at Karad in the Satara district of western Maharashtra [2][9] She wanted to continue her college studies to get graduate degrees of Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in mathematics and Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) to become a teacher, but a job opportunity in the Indian Railways put an end to her further studies.[8]"
"Yadav was interviewed by the Railway Recruitment Board, Mumbai, in 1987. She was selected and joined the Central Railway as a trainee assistant driver in 1986 at the Kalyan Training School where she trained for six months.[9][10][9] She became a regular assistant driver in 1989.[7] The first local goods train that she piloted was numbered L-50, which runs between Wadi Bunder and Kalyan when she was assigned the task of checking the running condition of train's engine, the signals and all related works.[8][9] She was then assigned to work as a goods train driver in l996. In 1998, she became a full-fledged goods train driver.[9][10] In 2010, she became a ghat driver on the Western Ghat railway line.[7] For driving a “ghat loco”, in the ghat (hill) section of the Western Ghats, she received special training to run the twin-engined passenger trains that negotiate the hills of western Maharashtra. She said that ""Because I was the only woman, they were curious whether I could do it or not"".[4] As an assistant driver, she drove shunters.[2] She was promoted as motor-woman in 2000. In this capacity her occupying motorman's cabin in the train attracted attention and there were admirers seeking her autograph.[9] In May 2011, she was promoted as an express mail driver.[3] She is currently teaching in Driver's Training Centre (DTC) Kalyan, as Senior Instructor."
"When she joined service with the Indian Railways, she realized that she was the first woman to drive a railway train in India, which till then was totally a male bastion. Other women were inspired by her, and as of 2011 there were 50 women locomotive drivers who were operating suburban trains and goods trains, and also as shunters or assistant drivers.[5] For pursuing a career as train driver in Mumbai, she said that she received full support from her family, friends and colleagues and has not experienced any discrimination as a woman. Even though she does not know how to drive a two-wheeler or a four-wheeler vehicle, she is happy driving a 9 or 12 car rake of a suburban train which carries 4,500 people. She is dedicated to run trains safely with full presence of mind, as the risks faced could be in the form of breakdowns due to mechanical problems, chain-pulling, rasta rokos (a form of protest in India to stop trains or block roads), and people or animals crossing the track suddenly, which need right thinking, prompt and quick action.[7][11] She has no record of train accidents.[8] She has so far driven many types of trains such as local suburban trains, ghat trains with twin engines (hill section train on the Western Ghat), goods and mail express trains.,[5][12] and she works for ten hours a day.[4] Her ambition is to drive a long distance passenger train.[9] She has also participated in activities to check eve-teasing.[4]"
"In 1991, Surekha acted in a television serial titled ""Hum Bhi Kisise Kum Nahi (we are second to none)"". She has received adulation from several organizations for her unique role as a woman train driver. She has given interviews several times on national and international TV channels.[2]"
"She got married in 1990 to Shankar Yadav,[13] who is Police Inspector in the Government of Maharashtra. They have 2 sons, Ajinkya (1991) and Ajitesh (1994), both being students of Engineering in Mumbai University. Her husband is supportive of her work.[9][13]"
Achievements
"Pratima Puhan is an Indian rower from Odisha. She born on 27 August 1991 in Cuttack, Odisha. She won a bronze medal in Women coxless pair event with Pramila Prava Minz of Odisha in the 2010 Asian Games."
"Wrote rowing history for India by becoming the first woman of the country along with Pramila Prava Minz to win a medal in 2010 Asian Games. She and Pramila Prava Minz claimed a bronze in the coxless pair event, clocking seven minutes and 47.50 seconds at Guangzhou, China on November 19, 2010.[1]"
Works
"Rathika Ramasamy Born near Theni, Tamil Nadu, India[1] Residence New Delhi, India Nationality Indian Occupation Wildlife photographer"
"Rathika Ramasamy is an Indian wildlife photographer. She is based in New Delhi and operates as a freelance photographer.[2] She has received accolades for her photographs[1][3] and has been called the ""first Indian woman to strike an international reputation as a wildlife photographer"".[4]"
"Rathika has lived in New Delhi since 1999, after her marriage.[5] She has a degree in computer engineering and an MBA, and worked as a software engineering for several years before becoming a full-time photographer.[6]"
"Rathika received her first camera from her uncle, an amateur photographer himself, and began shooting pictures of trees and flowers.[6] In 2003 she visited the Keoladeo National Park in Bharatpur and took pictures of birds.[7] Her early work was not skillful, but nurtured her interest in bird behaviour and photography. She began visiting the Okhla Bird Sanctuary regularly, studying the behaviour of various types of birds. Thereafter, she took to wildlife photography as her professional interest and visited many national parks in India, Kenya, and Tanzania.[7]"
"Her wildlife photography was featured at the ""Clean Ganga Campaign"" held in September 2005 at the India International Center, New Delhi.[8] In 2007, the Jawaharlal Nehru University's annual calendar featured her bird photographs.[1] The ""Birds of India"" chose her as one of the Top 20 best photographers of India in 2008, the only woman to receive the distinction.[6][9] Besides participating in wildlife exhibitions, she conducts workshops on wildlife photography.[3][5][8]"
Rathika is among the founding members of the Photography Arts Association of India.[6]
"Rathika self-published her first book, The Best of Wildlife Moments, in 2014.[3][8]"
"2015: Inspiring Icon Award, Sathyabama University, Chennai[3][8] 2015: International Camera Fair (ICF) award, for her excellence in wildlife photography.[3]"
Rathika Ramasamy
Legacy
Early life and education
Career
"Neerja Bhanot AC Born (1963-09-07)7 September 1963 Chandigarh, India Died 5 September 1986(1986-09-05) (aged 22) Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan Nationality Indian Occupation Purser, Model Known for Pan Am Flight 73 Parent(s) Rama Bhanot Harish Bhanot Awards Full List"
"Neerja Bhanot, AC, (Punjabi: ਨੀਰਜਾ ਭਨੋਟ; Hindi: नीरजा भनोट; 7 September 1963 – 5 September 1986),[1][2] was a purser for the airline Pan American World Airways, based in Mumbai, India. She was shot and killed while saving hundreds of passengers on board Pan Am Flight 73, which was hijacked by terrorists on 5 September 1986. Posthumously, she became the youngest recipient of India's highest peacetime award for bravery, the Ashok Chakra Award. Her life and heroism inspired a biopic in the form of Ram Madhvani's Neerja (2016). She saved 359 people among 379 and was shot while helping passengers escape from the emergency exits.[2][3]"
"Bhanot was born in Chandigarh, India, and brought up in Mumbai in a Punjabi family.[4] She was the daughter of Harish Bhanot, a Mumbai-based journalist, and Rama Bhanot. She had two brothers: Akhil and Aneesh Bhanot.[5] She received her early schooling at Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School in Chandigarh. When the family moved to Bombay (later renamed to Mumbai), she continued her studies at Bombay Scottish School and then graduated from St. Xavier's College, Mumbai.[1] It was in Mumbai where she was first spotted for a modelling assignment which began her modelling career.[6] She was a huge fan of actor Rajesh Khanna and used to refer to quotes from his films throughout her life.[7]"
"Bhanot applied for a flight attendant job with Pan Am, when in 1985 it decided to have an all Indian cabin crew for its Frankfurt to India routes. Upon selection, she went to Miami, Florida for training as a flight attendant, but returned as a purser.[1][8] She also had a successful modelling career simultaneously during her work at Pan Am."
"For her bravery, the Government of India posthumously awarded Bhanot the Ashoka Chakra Award, India's highest gallantry award for bravery in the face of the enemy during peace time. She is the youngest recipient and the first woman recipient of this award.[1][19][20] In 2004 the Indian Postal Service released a stamp commemorating her.[21][22]"
"Ketaki Pimpalkhare Nationality Indian Education Abhinav Kala Vidyalaya, S.N.D.T Known for Painting, Drawing, Sculpture Website http://www.ketakipimpalkhare.in/"
Ketaki Pimpalkhare (25 September 1977) is an Indian painter. Pimpalkhare has exhibited solo and group in India and also internationally.[1]
"Pimpalkhare was born in Pune, Maharashtra. She earned a degree in GD Art from the Abhinav Kala Vidyalaya, Pune and then obtained her Masters in Fine Art from S.N.D.T College, Pune.[2] She lives and works in Pune and is married to Shekhar Pimpalkhare."
Ketaki Pimpalkhare
International competitions
"Geeta Zutshi (born December 2, 1956) is a former Indian track and field athlete. She established several national and Asian running records in the 800 metres and 1500 metres events."
"Zutshi won the women's 800 m gold medal in the 1978 Asian Games in Bangkok and won silver medals for the 800 m in 1982, and for the 1500 m in both 1978 and 1982.[1] As the top Indian woman athlete at the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, she took the oath on behalf of the competitors during the opening ceremony.[2] For her achievements she has been awarded the Arjuna award and the Padma Shri."
"She has inspired other Indian women, such as Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to successfully climb Mount Everest. As a child, Pal began to aspire to national fame after seeing a newspaper photograph of Zutshi with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.[3]"
"She was coached by Mohammad Ilyas Babar. After 17 years in the United States, she returned to India in July, 2002, and took over as coach of the Indian junior athletics team (800 m and 1500 m)."
Geeta Zutshi
Awards and Honors
"Jhulan Goswami Personal information Full name Jhulan Goswami Born (1982-11-25) 25 November 1982 Nadia, West Bengal, India Nickname Babul Height 5 ft 11 in (1.80 m) Batting style Right-hand bat Bowling style Right-arm medium fast Role All-rounder International information National side India Test debut (cap 51) 14 January 2002 v England Last Test 16 November 2015 v South Africa ODI debut (cap 61) 6 January 2002 v England Last ODI 8 July 2015 v New Zealand ODI shirt no. 25 Career statistics Competition WTest WODI WT20I Matches 10 148 53 Runs scored 283 901 329 Batting average 25.72 13.65 11.86 100s/50s 0/2 0/1 0/0 Top score 69 57 37* Balls bowled 1,972 7,189 1,037 Wickets 40 175 45 Bowling average 16.62 21.78 20.17 5 wickets in innings 3 2 1 10 wickets in match 1 0 0 Best bowling 5/25 6/31 5/11 Catches/stumpings 5/– 51/– 18/– Source: Cricinfo"
"Jhulan Nishit Goswami (Bengali: ঝুলন গোস্বামী) (born 25 November 1982 in Nadia, West Bengal, India) is an all round cricketer who plays for the India national women's cricket team, Bengal Women, East Zone Women as well as the Asia Women XI women's cricket team.On 1 February 2009, she was appointed to lead the team for the upcoming world cup."
"An integral part of the team, Jhulan is noted for both her batting and bowling (right arm medium) capabilities. She has a Test bowling average of less than 20. In the 2006-07 season she guided the Indian team to first test series win in England."
"She won the ICC Women's Player of the Year 2007 and the M.A. Chidambaram trophy for Best Women Cricketer in 2011.[1] Recently she is no more the captain of the Indian Women's Cricket team. She is succeeded by Mitali Raj. Currently, she is first in ICC Women's ODI bowling rankings(January 2016)."
Also she was the fastest playing bowler in world women cricket after Cathryn Fitzpatrick retired.[2]
2007 - ICC Women's Cricketer of the Year 2010 - Arjuna Award 2012 - Padma Shri [3]
Early career
"Chitra Ramkrishna Born 1963 Nationality Indian Education B. Com, FCA Occupation Former MD & CEO of NSE [1] Predecessor Ravi Narain"
"Chitra Ramkrishna is the first and former woman managing director and chief executive officer of the National Stock Exchange (NSE), an institution founded in the early 1990s to reform the capital market in India, and now ranking as the world's largest exchange in cash market trades and as one of the top three exchanges in index and stock derivatives. As the MD and CEO, Ms. Ramkrishna has not only maintained the rich legacy of this great institution, but her tireless endeavour has ensured it has scaled new heights.[2]"
"Moreover, her professional career includes the following positions:"
"Starting out as a chartered accountant, her first brush with finance came in 1985 when she joined the project finance division of Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). Ramkrishna then had a stint at Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and returned to IDBI two years later. It was here that she honed her financial skills, working at the treasury and fixed income departments before coming into her own while marketing the trendsetting deep discount bonds."
"Forbes' Women Leader of the year (2013): For striking a delicate balance between the exchange’s commercial and regulatory roles and keeping NSE ahead of the pack with a high degree of professionalism, new products and cutting-edge technology.""[4]"
YouTube
"Official website Dayanita Singh Video by DW.DE Stealing in the night. An interview with Dayanita Singh Video by Louisiana Channel THROUGH THE CRACKS OF A MIRROR Published in ShahidulNews, 6 December 2008 What Goes On In the Minds of India’s Most Famous Photographers?"
"Dayanita Singh Dayanita Singh at National Museum, New Delhi, 2014 Born 1961 (age 55–56) [1] New Delhi Residence New Delhi Nationality Indian Occupation Contemporary Artist, Photographer Style Documentary, Portrait Website dayanitasingh.com"
"Dayanita Singh is an artist. Her medium is photography and the book is her primary form. She studied Visual Communication at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad and Documentary Photography at the International Center of Photography in New York City. She has published twelve books: Museum of Chance (2014), Fileroom (2013), House of Love (2011), Dayanita Singh (2010), Dream Villa (2010), Blue Book (2009), Sent a Letter (2008), Go Away Closer (2007), Chairs (2005), Privacy (2003), Myself Mona Ahmed (2001) and Zakir Hussain (1986).[2]"
"Dayanita Singh’s art reflects and expands on the ways in which people relate to photographic images. Her recent works, drawn from her extensive photographic oeuvre, are a series of mobile museums that allow her images to be endlessly edited, sequenced, archived and displayed. Stemming from Singh’s interest in the archive, the museums present her photographs as interconnected bodies of work that are replete with both poetic and narrative possibilities."
"Publishing is also a significant part of the artist’s practice: in her books, often made in collaboration with Gerhard Steidl, she experiments with alternate forms of producing and viewing photographs. Here, Singh’s latest is the “book-object,” a work that is concurrently a book, an art object, an exhibition and a catalogue. This work, also developing from the artist’s interest in the poetic and narrative possibility of sequence and re-sequence, allows Singh to both create photographic sequence and also simultaneously disrupt it."
"Born in Delhi, in 1961, Singh studied Visual Communication at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad and later Documentary Photography at the International Center of Photography in New York City.[1]"
"Singh’s first foray into photography and bookmaking came through a chance encounter with tabla maestro Zakir Hussain, when he invited her to photograph him in rehearsal after she was shoved by an aggressive official while attempting to shoot him in concert. For six winters following this, Singh documented several Hussain tours and, in 1986, finally published the images in her first book, Zakir Hussain. Referring to him as her first ""true guru"", Singh believes that Hussain taught her the most important of all skills: focus.[6][1]"
Dayanita Singh
"Karnam Malleswari (born 1 June 1975) is a retired Indian weightlifter. She won the world title in the 54 kg division in 1994 and 1995 and placed third in 1993 and 1996. She won another bronze medal at the 2000 Olympics,[2] becoming the first Indian woman to win an Olympic medal.[3] In 1995 she received the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna,[4] India's highest sporting honour, and in 1999 the civilian Padma Shri award.[5]"
"Malleswari has four sisters, all trained in weightlifting. In 1997 she married a fellow weightlifter Rajesh Tyagi, and in 2001 gave birth to a son. She planned to return to competitions at the 2002 Commonwealth Games, but withdrew due to the death of her father. She retired after failing to score at the 2004 Olympics.[1][2]"
Personal life and other works
Jwala was awarded with the prestigious Arjuna Award in 2011 for her accomplishments
"Jwala GUTTA at BWFbadminton.com Jwala GUTTA at BWF.tournamentsoftware.com ""Jwala Gutta"". Olympics at Sports-Reference.com. Sports Reference LLC. "
"Jwala Gutta Jwala during a match at the IBL Personal information Country  India Born (1983-09-07) 7 September 1983 Wardha, Maharashtra, India Residence Hyderabad, Telangana, India Height 1.83 m (6 ft 0 in)[1] Weight 60 kg (130 lb; 9.4 st) Years active 2001–Present Handedness Left Coach S. M. Arif Mixed Doubles/ Women's Doubles Highest ranking 6 (in XD) (Aug 2010) 10 (in WD) (20 August 2015) Current ranking 14 (in WD) (5 May 2016) Medal record Women's badminton Representing  India World Championships 2011 London Women's doubles Commonwealth Games 2010 Delhi Women's Doubles 2010 Delhi Mixed Team 2014 Glasgow Women's Doubles 2006 Melbourne Mixed Team Uber Cup 2014 New Delhi Team 2016 Kunshan Team Asia Championships 2014 Gimcheon Women's Doubles South Asian Games 2006 Colombo Mixed Doubles 2016 Guwahati Women's Doubles 2016 Guwahati Women's Team BWF profile"
"Jwala Gutta is a left-handed Indian badminton player. Gutta, who is the country's most successful doubles specialist, has won the National Badminton Championships fourteen times. She has represented India at the international circuit since early 2000s, partnering Shruti Kurien earlier in her career winning the national championships for six consecutive years. Gutta later found greater international success with Ashwini Ponnappa, and the pair consistently figured among the top-twenty pairs in the BWF World Ranking reaching as high as no. 10 in 2015."
"Gutta has won numerous medals for Indian badminton including the bronze medal BWF World Championships in 2011 and a gold and silver at 2010 and 2014 Commonwealth Games respectively in women's doubles which were the first for the country in the discipline. Other achievements include the historic bronze medal at the 2014 Thomas & Uber Cup held at New Delhi, a bronze medal at Badminton Asia Championships in the same year and final and semi-final appearances in many big international events most notably the finals appearance at the 2009 BWF Super Series Masters Finals alongside Diju which was the first for the country in any discipline."
"Gutta has been credited to have brought recognition for doubles badminton in India, first with her mixed doubles partner Valiyaveetil Diju with whom she peaked at no. 6 in 2010 becoming the first doubles partnership from the country to be ranked amongst the top-10 and later with her partnership with Ponnappa in women's doubles. She has also won medals at all major international badminton tournaments and multi-sport events, except for the Olympics.[2] In addition to her successful career, Gutta has been vociferous for the issues she advocates for, ranging from fair treatment in sports, health and education, women's empowerment and gender equality. She has been listed several times among the top most inspiring sportswomen of India. She was awarded the Arjuna Award, India's second highest sporting award for her achievements. She paired with Ponappa at the Rio 2016 Olympics where the pair crashed out in the group stage with two consecutive losses at the hands of opponents from Japan and Netherlands.[3]"
Gutta playing against partner Ponnappa and Joachim Fischer Nielsen at IBL
Gutta and Diju won the Chinese Taipei Open in 2009 becoming the first Indian pair to win Grand Prix Gold Event.
Jwala got married to fellow badminton player Chetan Anand in 2005 and later separated in 2011
"During her badminton career, Gutta began dating fellow badminton player Chetan Anand. The couple married on 17 July 2005 and got divorced on 29 June 2011. The divorce gathered huge and unwanted media attention and speculations about an affair with ex-cricketer Mohammad Azharuddin also came up, but was never confirmed due to lack of any proof of the news and constant denials from Jwala herself. Jwala confirmed filing the divorce but denied that it had anything to do with Azharuddin.[48]"
"Azhar had also hinted that these stories had been planted by people in the Badminton Association of India, who wanted to tarnish his image since he tried to contest for the presidents' elections. He said, ""These are planted stories and motivated by people, who are against me in the Badminton Association of India. They are so upsetting.""[49] In 2013, Jwala said in an interview, ""I learnt a lot from the marriage but we weren't growing as a couple. A part of me forgot that I too was a part of the sport. I was satisfied thinking that his victories were our victories,""[50]"
Training background
Career highlights
Retirement
Awards and achievements
"Aparna Popat Personal information Birth name Aparna Lalji Popat Country India Born (1978-01-18) 18 January 1978 Mumbai, Maharashtra, India Height 1.63 m (5 ft 4 in) Years active 1989–2006 Handedness Right Women's singles Highest ranking 16[1] Medal record Women's badminton Representing  India Commonwealth Games 1998 Kuala Lumpur Women's singles 2002 Manchester Women's singles 2006 Melbourne Mixed team World Junior Championships 1996 Silkeborg Girls' singles BWF profile"
"Aparna Popat (Gujarati: અપર્ણા પોપટ; born January 18, 1978) is a former Indian badminton player. She was India's national champion for a record equalling nine times when she won all the senior national championships between 1997 and 2006.[2]"
"Aparna Popat was born on 18 January 1978 in Mumbai, Maharashtra into a Gujarati family of Lalji Popat and Heena Popat. She studied at the J. B. Petit High School in Mumbai and her Pre-university course from Mount Carmel College, in Bangalore. Aparna also holds a Bachelor's degree in Commerce from the Mumbai University."
"Aparna started playing badminton in 1986 in Mumbai. As an 8-year old when she approached Anil Pradhan for coaching, he saw a spark in the girl and told her parents ""Give me this girl and I will put her on the map of Indian Badminton"". Being a National champion himself, he helped her develop skills required to face the many challenges of the game.[3]"
"In 1994, she shifted to the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy in Bangalore to further expand her capabilities. Training under the legendary Prakash Padukone, former All-England champion, she built up her fitness and learned techniques to be more competitive at the international level."
"Aparna captured her first Senior National title at Hyderabad in 1997. She went on to win the Senior National title till 2006, thereby equaling the Prakash Padukone's record of winning nine consecutive national singles titles."
"After 17 years of professional badminton, she retired from the game in 2006 after suffering a wrist injury that remained un-diagnosed. She remained undefeated at the National championships."
"She was conferred the Arjuna Award in 2005, one of the highest sporting honors in India awarded by the Government of India."
Aparna Popat at BWF.tournamentsoftware.com
Achievements
"Harika Dronavalli Full name Dronavalli Harika Country India Born (1991-01-12) 12 January 1991 Gorantla, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India Title Grandmaster (2011) Woman Grand Master (2004) FIDE rating 2539 (March 2017) Peak rating 2543 (November 2016)"
Harika Dronavalli (born 12 January 1991 in Guntur) is an Indian chess player. She achieved the title Grandmaster (GM) in 2011.
"2016 proved to be a great year for Harika Dronavalli as she won the FIDE Women’s Grand Prix at Chengdu, China and rose up from World No.11 to World No. 5 in FIDE Women’s ranking. She finished the FIDE set of Women’s Grand Prix’s in Khanty Mansiysk, Russia is December with an overall 5th position."
"FIDE Women Grand Prix, Khanty Mansiysk - 5th position FIDE Women Grand Prix, Chengdu - Gold Medal. Asian Women Team Chess Championship, UAE - Member Indian Team Individual Gold medal in Rapid format. Individual Silver Medal on Top Board in Classical format. Team won Bronze Medal in Rapid format."
Harika Dronavalli
Synopsis
Lajja Author Taslima Nasrin Country Bangladesh Language Bengali Genre Novel Publication date 1993 Published in English October 1997 Media type Print (Hardback & Paperback) Pages 302 ISBN 1-57392-165-3 OCLC 37322498 Dewey Decimal 891.4/437 21 LC Class PK1730.3.A65 L3513 1997
"Lajja (Bengali: লজ্জা Lôjja) (Shame) is a novel in Bengali by Taslima Nasrin, a writer of Bangladesh. The word lajja/lôjja means ""shame"" in Bengali and many other Indo-Aryan languages. The book was first published in 1993 in Bengali and was subsequently banned in Bangladesh.[1][2] It nonetheless sold 50,000 copies in the six months after its publication,[3] though Taslima fled her native Bangladesh after receiving death threats from Islamic groups.[4]"
"Nasrin dedicated the book ""to the people of the Indian subcontinent,"" beginning the text with the words, ""let another name for religion be humanism."" The novel is preceded by a preface and a chronology of events."
"Lajja is a response of Taslima Nasrin to anti-Hindu riots that erupted in parts of Bangladesh, soon after the demolition of Babri Masjid in India on 6 December 1992. The book subtly indicates that communal feelings were on the rise, the Hindu minority of Bangladesh was not fairly treated, and secularism was under shadow."
"Lajja has been translated into many languages including French, Dutch, German, English, Spanish, Italian, Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, Icelandic, Persian, Arabic, Assamese, Kannada, Hindi, Gujarati, Oriya, Urdu, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Punjabi, Nepali, Malayalam and Sinhalese."
Movements and ideologies
A symbol of feminism based on the Venus symbol
"Some branches of feminism closely track the political leanings of the larger society, such as liberalism and conservatism, or focus on the environment. Liberal feminism seeks individualistic equality of men and women through political and legal reform without altering the structure of society. Catherine Rottenberg has argued that the neoliberal shirt in Liberal feminism has led to that form of feminism being individualized rather than collectivized and becoming detached from social inequality.[83] Due to this she argues that Liberal Feminism cannot offer any sustained analysis of the structures of male dominance, power, or privilege.[83]"
"Feminism is a range of political movements, ideologies, and social movements that share a common goal: to define, establish, and achieve political, economic, personal, and social rights for women.[1][2] This includes seeking to establish equal opportunities for women in education and employment."
"Feminist movements have campaigned and continue to campaign for women's rights, including the right to vote, to hold public office, to work, to earn fair wages or equal pay, to own property, to receive education, to enter contracts, to have equal rights within marriage, and to have maternity leave. Feminists have also worked to promote bodily autonomy and integrity, and to protect women and girls from rape, sexual harassment, and domestic violence.[3]"
"Feminist Suffrage Parade in New York City, 6 May 1912"
"Charles Fourier, a Utopian Socialist and French philosopher, is credited with having coined the word ""féminisme"" in 1837.[9] The words ""féminisme"" (""feminism"") and ""féminist"" (""feminist"") first appeared in France and the Netherlands in 1872,[10] Great Britain in the 1890s, and the United States in 1910,[11][12] and the Oxford English Dictionary lists 1852 as the year of the first appearance of ""feminist""[13] and 1895 for ""feminism"".[14] Depending on the historical moment, culture and country, feminists around the world have had different causes and goals. Most western feminist historians assert that all movements working to obtain women's rights should be considered feminist movements, even when they did not (or do not) apply the term to themselves.[15][16][17][18][19][20] Other historians assert that the term should be limited to the modern feminist movement and its descendants. Those historians use the label ""protofeminist"" to describe earlier movements.[21]"
Chronological list of female Indian chief ministers
"The three incumbent woman chief ministers in India—Vasundhara Raje, Mamata Banerjee and Mehbooba Mufti"
Death
Shanti Tigga is the first female jawan in the Indian Army.[1][2] She joined when she was 35 and has had two children. Tigga was awarded the title of best trainee.
Tigga assumed committed suicide after accusation that she had taken money for jobs.[3]
Shanti Tigga
Career
"Flight Lt. Harita Kaur Deol (1972 - December 25, 1996) was a pilot with the Indian Air Force. She was the first woman pilot to fly solo in the Indian Air Force. The flight was on 2 September 1994 in an Avro HS-748, when she was 22 years old.[1][2][3][4]Daughter of an Army man, Harita was passionate about defence life and in 1993 Harita became one of the seven cadets of the women trannsporter wing of the Indian Air force."
"Hailing from Chandigarh in a Sikh family,[1] in 1993, she became one of the first seven women cadets inducted into the Air Force as Short Service Commission (SSC) officers. This also marked a critical phase in training of women in India as transport pilots.[5] After initial training at Air Force Academy, Dundigul near Hyderabad, she received further training at Air Lift Forces Training Establishment (ALFTE) at Yelahanka Air Force Station.[6]"
"Harita created history when she kissed the clouds at a massive height of 10,000 feet which indeed was am momentous occasion for Indian Air Force."
"However she died in an aircrash near Nellore on Dec. 25, 1996.[5] She was one of 24 Air Force personnel to die when an Indian Air Force Avro aircraft, crashed near the Bukkapuram village in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh.[7][8]"
Filmography
Anjali Menon blog Anjali Menon at the Internet Movie Database
"Anjali Menon Born Calicut, Kerala, India Occupation Film director, screenwriter, producer Years active 2006–Present Spouse(s) Vinod Menon Children 1"
"Anjali Menon is an Indian film director and screenwriter who made her writing and directional debut with the feature film Manjadikuru (Lucky Red Seeds), for which she got the FIPRESCI award for the Best Malayalam film and Best Indian Debut[1] Her second feature film is Bangalore Days and she has written the critically and commercially acclaimed Ustad Hotel."
"She grew up in Dubai. She did post-graduation work in communication studies from Pune University.[2] Anjali graduated from the London Film School in 2003, with distinction honours in editing, producing and directing film.[3][4] Her graduation film Black Nor White,[5] (credited as Anjali), featuring Rez Kempton and Archie Panjabi with Asif Kapadia as Executive Producer was premiered at the Palm Springs International Film Festival.[6]"
"Menon started her career with short fiction and documentary projects in India, Middle East and UK. In 2006, she and Vinod Menon started Little Films India, a film company in Mumbai.[3] Menon is a published writer with her screenplays as well as Monsoon feast – a collection of short stories where she has contributed a story. She lives in Mumbai with her husband and son."
2012 - 60th National Film Awards - Best Dialogues (Ustad Hotel)[11]
2013 - Asianet Film Awards - Best Screenplay (Ustad Hotel) 2015 - Filmfare Awards South - Best Director (Bangalore Days)[12] 2015 - Asianet Film Awards - Best Director (Bangalore Days) and Best Popular Film (Bangalore Days)[13] 2015 - Vanitha Film Awards - Best Director (Bangalore Days) and Best Popular Film[14] 2015 - SIIMA Film Awards - Best Director (Bangalore Days) and Best Film[15]
International Film Festival awards and selections
2008: Hassankutty Award for Best Debut Director (Manjadikuru)[16][17] 2008: FIPRESCI Prize for Best Malayalam Film ( Manjadikuru)[18][19]
Anjali Menon
Early life
""
"Kiran Khan Kiran Rao at DK Bose song success bash Born (1973-11-07) 7 November 1973[1][2] Bangalore, Karnataka, India Alma mater Sophia College Mumbai Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi Occupation Director, producer, screenwriter Years active 2005–present Spouse(s) Aamir Khan (m. 2005) Children Azad Rao Khan Relatives Aditi Rao Hydari (cousin)"
"Kiran Rao is an Indian film producer, screenwriter and director."
"Rao was born into a family from Telangana on 7 November 1973.[1][2][3] Her grandfather was J. Rameshwar Rao, Raja of Wanaparthy, Wanaparthy district, Telangana state. She was raised in Kolkata where she attended Loreto House. In 1992, her parents decided to leave Kolkata so she moved to Mumbai.[2] She graduated with an economics major from the Sophia College for Women (Mumbai) in 1995. She attended the Social Communications Media course at the Sophia Polytechnic for two months, but then quit and left for Delhi. She got her Masters at AJK Mass Communication Research Center at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi.[4] Actress Aditi Rao Hydari is Rao's first cousin."
"Rao started her career as an assistant director in the epic film Lagaan directed by Ashutosh Gowariker, whom she also assisted later on Swades: We, the People. Lagaan was nominated for 74th Academy Awards in the foreign language film category. Aamir Khan produced and starred in the same film. Before Lagaan, she has also done minute role of supporting actress in Dil Chahta Hai.[5] She also worked as second assistant director with Academy Award nominated director Mira Nair on the indie hit Monsoon Wedding.[6]"
"She scripted and directed the film Dhobi Ghat, which was released in January 2011 under Aamir Khan Productions.[7][8] She has started writing her next film which will have roots in Kolkata.[2]"
Kiran Rao was made the chairperson of the Mumbai Film Festival - MAMI in 2015.[9]
"Rao married actor Aamir Khan in December 2005, after Khan divorced his first wife Reena Dutta in 2002. They met on the sets of Lagaan. Rao was one of the film's assistant directors. They now live in Bandra, a Mumbai suburb.[11] The couple have a son, Azad Rao Khan (born on 5 December 2011), who has been named after Abul Kalam Azad.[12] She is an atheist.[13]"
"Kalpana Lajmi (born. 1954) is an Indian film director,[1] producer and screenwriter. Lajmi is an independent filmmaker working more on realistic, low-budget films, which are known in India as parallel cinema. Her films are often woman-oriented films. She had been for a longtime manager with famous Assamese/Hindi/Bengali/English singer/lyricist/writer/film-maker Dr. Bhupen Hazarika."
"Kalpana Lajmi is daughter of painter Lalita Lajmi and niece of filmmaker Guru Dutt, debuted as an assistant director under the veteran film director Shyam Benegal who was also her relative of the Padukone family. She later went on to work as an assistant costume designer in Shyam Benegal's Bhumika: The Role. She made her directorial début with the documentary film D.G. Movie Pioneer in 1978 and went on to direct more documentaries like A Work Study in Tea Plucking (1979) and Along the Brahmaputra (1981). She debuted as a feature film director in 1986 with Ek Pal (A Moment), starring Shabana Azmi and Naseeruddin Shah. She produced the film, took part in the film writing and had written the screenplay for the film along with Gulzar."
She then took a break from directing movies and went to direct her first television serial Lohit Kinare (1988) starring Tanvi Azmi. She made her comeback to cinema in 1993 with the critically acclaimed Rudaali starring Dimple Kapadia. Kapadia won the National Film Award for Best Actress for her performance and Lajmi also won accolades for directing the film.
Her next film was Darmiyaan: In Between (1997) which was directed and produced by her. The movie starred Kirron Kher and Tabu in pivotal & influential roles.
"Her next film in 2001, Daman: A Victim of Marital Violence. The film was distributed by the Indian Government and was highly acclaimed by critics. It was the second time that an actress won the National Film Award for Best Actress under Lajmi's directorial hand. This time it was Raveena Tandon, who was not as appreciated before, and Lajmi was credited as being the one to exploit the hidden talent in her."
"Her next film, Kyon? (2003) was unnoticed, while her last release. Her last film was Chingaari in 2006 that starred Sushmita Sen as a village prostitute. Chingaari turned out - to be a commercial box-office flop."
Kalpana Lajmi
Kalpana Lajmi at the Internet Movie Database Rediff interview
"Nitya Mehra Born Amritsar[1] Nationality Indian Occupation Movie Director Known for Life of Pi, The Reluctant Fundamentalist, Baar Baar Dekho"
"Nitya Mehra is a Bollywood film director and screenwriter. After working in television and as assistant director in films like Ang Lee's Life of Pi and Mira Nair's The Namesake, and The Reluctant Fundamentalist,[1] she made her directorial debut with Eros Now's romantic drama Baar Baar Dekho.[2]"
"Mehra was born in Amritsar into a Punjabi family. Her mother was a fashion designer. She was schooled at the Welham Girls School, Dehradun.[1]"
Nitya Mehra at the Internet Movie Database
Early and personal life
Early career
"Deepa Sahi Born (1962-11-30) 30 November 1962 Dehradun, India Occupation Film actress, Producer, director, script and story writer Years active 1984–present Spouse(s) Ketan Mehta"
"Deepa Sahi is an Indian actress and producer from an Army background, who is best known for her role as Maya in the 1992 movie Maya Memsaab opposite actor Shah Rukh Khan. She made her directorial debut with the movie Tere Mere Phere in 2011.[1]"
"Deepa Sahi was born Dehradun in an Army background and is the youngest sibling in her family. She grew up in Meerut.[2] Her family later shifted to Canada but she continued to stay in India. She had an elder sister who died at the age of 18.[2] Sahi pursued her education at Indraprastha College for Women,[3] and was a gold medalist in Sociology from Delhi School of Economics.[4][5] Sahi later joined the National School of Drama with the aim of becoming a director.[6] However she started receiving acting offers from her NSD days which prompted her to shift to acting. Sahi decided to direct her first film in the early days of her career, the film, Nana Karte Pyaar which was supposed to star Nana Patekar and Hema Malini failed to take off due to a recession.[7] She is married to film director Ketan Mehta who is the nephew of freedom fighter Usha Mehta.[1] It was both of theirs second marriage.[4]"
"An alumnus of National School of Drama, Delhi, Sahi started off with a theater career, with strong Leftist leanings and social activism a core value of the productions she was involved with."
"After marrying film director Ketan Mehta — also was a rising light of alternate Hindi cinema — she acted in several of his films including Hero Hiralal (1988), Maya Memsaab (1992) and Oh Darling! Yeh Hai India (1995).[2] She wrote the screenplay for Oh Darling! Yeh Hai India."
Deepa Sahi at the Internet Movie Database
Biography
Career
"Tanuja Chandra Native name तनुजा चंद्रा Born June 3, 1969 (1969-06-03) (age 47) Lucknow, India Nationality Indian Occupation Film director, writer"
"Tanuja Chandra (born June 3, 1969) is an Indian film director and writer. She is known as screenwriter Yash Chopra's hit Dil To Pagal Hai (1997) and for frequently directing woman-oriented films where the heroines are the main protagonists of her films, notably Dushman (1998) and Sangharsh (1999).[1]"
She is the sister of famous writer Vikram Chandra and film critic Anupama Chopra. Her mother is film writer Kamna Chandra.[2]
"Chandra began her career in 1995 and made her directorial debut with the TV series Zameen Aasmaan, starring Tanvi Azmi. In 1996, she directed another television serial along with Shabnam Sukhdev, called Mumkin. In 1997, she wrote the screenplay for Yash Chopra's Dil To Pagal Hai, which was a commercial success."
"She went on to collaborate often with Mahesh Bhatt and wrote the screenplay for his critically acclaimed picture, Zakhm (1998). She also made her cinematic directorial debut with his Dushman in the same year. The movie, starring Kajol in the lead role, received critical praise and performed moderately well at the box office."
"Recent films were Zindaggi Rocks (2006), starring Sushmita Sen. Chandra also wrote the story and the screenplay for the film. Her most recent film was Hope and a Little Sugar (2006), was shot entirely in English in the US. In early 2016, her next film project Silvat was announced, which stars Kartik Aaryan. [3][4]"
Tanuja Chandra at the Internet Movie Database
References
Early life and education
Television career
"Neena Gupta Neena Gupta at Nishka Lulla and Masaba's designs preview at Oakwood Premier Born (1959-07-04) 4 July 1959[1][2] India Occupation actor, director Years active 1982–present Spouse(s) Vivek Mehra (2008–present) Partner(s) Viv Richards (?–1989) Children Masaba Gupta"
"Neena Gupta (born 4 July 1959) is an Indian film and television actress and director-producer. She won the 1994 National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress for Woh Chokri. She is a popular actress in Indian commercial cinema, but it is her work with art filmmakers of India, like G. Aravindan and Shyam Benegal that got her recognition as an actress of considerable repute. She did a guest appearance in the TV Series; Shrimaan Shrimati. She also hosted the Indian version of the television quiz show The Weakest Link, Kamzor Kadii Kaun.[3]"
"Neena Gupta was born in Delhi to R. N. Gupta and attended the Lawrence School, Sanawar.[4] She completed her master's degree in Sanskrit and went on to do her M.Phil in the related subject."
"Her big break on television came with Khandaan (1985), Yatra (1986), Gulzar's Mirza Ghalib (1987), a TV miniseries, followed by Shyam Benegal's Bharat Ek Khoj (1988) and later Dard (1994 DD Metro), Gumraah (1995 DD Metro), Saans (Star Plus), Saat Phere (2005), Chitthi (2003), Meri Biwi Ka Jawab Nahin (2004), and Kitani Mohabbat Hai (2009). She also acted in one of the famous TV serial Buniyaad."
"She was in a relationship with former West Indian cricketer Vivian Richards in the 1980s, from which she has a daughter, Masaba Gupta, a fashion designer.[5] She was also involved in relationships with Alok Nath and Sharang Dev.[6] On 15 July 2008, she married New Delhi-based Vivek Mehra, a chartered accountant and Partner with PwC India in a secret ceremony in the United States.[7][8][9]"
National Film Award 1993: Best First Non-Feature Film: Bazaar Sitaram 1994: Best Supporting Actress: Woh Chokri [10][11]
Neena Gupta at the Internet Movie Database
Swapna Patker as Producer
Swapna Patker as Hotelier
References
"Dr. Swapna Patker Swapna Patker Born Maharashtra, India Nationality Indian Education Harvard Business School, Indira Gandhi National Open University, University of Mumbai Occupation Film producer, writer, entrepreneur, clinical psychologist"
"Dr. Swapna Patker is an Indian writer, film producer, and entrepreneur,[1] better known for 2015 Marathi film Balkadu, a biopic of Shivsena founder and Hindu nationalist leader Balasaheb Thackeray. She is chief managing director of The Royal Maratha Entertainment, a motion picture production company. Patker is author of Jeevan Funda,[2] a Marathi language self-help book, published in 2013.[3][4][5][6][7]"
"In 2015, Under the banner of The Royal Maratha Entertainment, Swapna Patker produced a Marathi language film Balkadu, which is biopic of late Balasaheb Thackeray. She also wrote lyrics for the film.[8][9][10][11][12]"
"As a women entrepreneur, She founded Saffron 12, a multi-cuisine and fine-dining family restaurant in Mumbai. At the launch of Saffron 12, on 12 March 2013, Sanjay Dutt, Bappi Lahiri, Hrishitaa Bhatt, Mudasir Ali, Tajdar Amrohi, Suresh Wadkar and wife Padma, Dalip Tahil, Gary Richardson and Murli Sharma were among the guests.[13][14][15][16][17]"
Swapna Patker
Official website Swapna Patker at the Internet Movie Database
See also
"Dola Banerjee Born (1980-06-02) 2 June 1980 Baranagar, North 24 Parganas district, West Bengal Nationality Indian Occupation Sportsman (Archer)"
Dola Banerjee (Bengali: দোলা ব্যানার্জি) (born 2 June 1980) is an Indian sportswoman who competes in archery.[1]
"Dola Banerjee is daughter of Ashok Banerjee and Kalpana Banerjee. She was born in Baranagar near Kolkata. She studied in Baranagar Rajkumari Memorial Girls High School. At the age of nine, she joined Baranagar Archery Club.[2] Her first international appearance was in Youth World Championship in San Diego in 1996[3]"
"Dola Banerjee represented India at the 2004 Summer Olympics. She was placed 13th in the women's individual ranking round with a 72-arrow score of 642. In the first round of elimination, she faced 52nd-ranked Kirstin Jean Lewis of South Africa. Dola fell victim to an upset, losing 141-131 in the 18-arrow match, placing 52nd overall in women's individual archery. Dola was also a member of the 8th-place Indian women's archery team."
"Dola Banerjee won the second international gold medal of her career when she won the individual recurve title of the fourth leg of the Meteksan World Cup archery at Dover (England) in August 2007. Having won the fourth leg, she qualified for the world cup final held at Dubai in November 2007 where the winners of the four legs competed.[4]"
"Dola Banerjee became world champion in archery by winning the gold medal in the women's individual recurve competition at the archery world cup held at Dubai, in November 2007."
Dola Banerjee is the second woman archer to be honored with the Arjuna award by the Government of India in 2005.[5]
Banerjee's younger brother Rahul Banerjee is also an archer. She is a cousin of the singers Shaan and Sagarika.[5]
Dola Banerjee
"Rajbir Kaur is the former captain of the India women's national field hockey team and hails from Chandigarh, Punjab. She has received the Arjuna Award in 1984 by the government of India for the outstanding achievement in National sports.[1][2] Rajbir is the only woman hockey player who represented the country for four consecutive Asian Games in 1982, 1986, 1990 and 1994. She was honoured by many organisations for her achievements in the field of hockey."
Achievements
International
National
Doping
Jauna Murmu is an Indian sprint runner and hurdler from Odisha who specializes in 400 metres and 400 metres hurdles. She belongs to Mayurbhanj District of Odisha. She has received coaching from Arun Kumar Das and Subash Chandra Dasmohapatra.[1]
She has multiple International and national achievements.
"Finished 4th in 400m hurdles in 2010 Asian Games held in Guangzhou, China. Won one gold medal in women’s 400 metre hurdles event, clocking 57.39 seconds and claimed one bronze in 400 metres sprint with a timing of 53.17 seconds in the 3rd Asian All Star Athletics Meet, which concluded at New Delhi on July 30, 2010. Two gold medals in the 2016 South Asian Games: in the 400m hurdles and the 4 x 400m relay.[2]"
"Won the silver medal in women's 400m event of the National Inter-State Senior Athletics Championship, clocking 52.78 seconds at Patiala, Punjab on August 6, 2010."
Murmu tested positive for the anabolic steroid Methandienone in an out of competition test 25 May 2011 and was subsequently handed a two-year doping ban.[3][4][5]
Career
Awards and achievements
"Humpy Koneru Humpy in 2012 Full name Koneru Humpy Country India Born (1987-03-31) 31 March 1987 Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, India Title Grandmaster FIDE rating 2557 (March 2017) Peak rating 2623 (July 2009)"
"Humpy Koneru (born 31 March 1987 in Vijayawada) is an Indian chess grandmaster. In October 2007, she became the second female player, after Judit Polgár, to exceed the 2600 Elo rating mark, being rated 2606.[1][2]"
"In 2002, Koneru became the youngest woman ever to achieve the title of grandmaster (not solely a Woman Grandmaster) at the age of 15 years, 1 month, 27 days, beating Judit Polgár's previous mark by three months;[3] this record was subsequently broken by Hou Yifan in 2008."
"Koneru won three gold medals at the World Youth Chess Championship: in 1997 (under-10 girls' division), 1998 (under-12 girls) and 2000 (under-14 girls). In 1999, at the Asian Youth Chess Championship, held in Ahmedabad, she won the under-12 section, competing with the boys.[4] In 2001 Koneru won the World Junior Girls Championship. In the following year's edition, she tied for first place with Zhao Xue, but placed second on tiebreak.[5] Koneru competed with the boys in the 2004 World Junior Championship, which was won by Pentala Harikrishna, and tied for fifth place, finishing tenth on countback with a score of 8.5/13 points.[6]"
"Koneru won the British Women's Championship in 2000 and in 2002. In 2003, she won the 10th Asian Women's Individual Championship and the Indian Women's Championship.[7][8] In 2005 she won the North Urals Cup, a round-robin tournament held in Krasnoturyinsk, Russia featuring ten of the strongest female players in the world at the time.[9]"
"She participated in the Women's World Chess Championship for the first time in 2004 and since then, she has competed in every edition of the event held with the knockout format. Koneru reached the semifinals in 2004, 2008 and 2010."
"In 2009 she tied for 1st–4th with Alexander Areshchenko, Magesh Panchanathan and Evgenij Miroshnichenko in the Mumbai Mayor Cup.[10]"
"In 2009, Koneru accused the All India Chess Federation of preventing her from participating in the 37th Chess Olympiad in Turin.[11][12] Her father Koneru Ashok, who was coaching her, was not allowed to travel with her for tournaments. The controversy has not died down."
"She was originally named ""Hampi"" by her parents (Koneru Ashok and Mrs Latha Ashok) who derived the name from the word ""champion"". Her father later changed the spelling to Humpy, to more closely resemble a Russian-sounding name.[16][17]"
1999: Asia's youngest Woman International Master (WIM) 2001: India's youngest Woman Grandmaster (WGM) 2003: Arjuna Award 2007: Padma Shri[20]
"Humpy Koneru chess games at 365Chess.com Koneru Humpy chess games (1997–2000) at 365Chess.com Humpy Koneru player profile and games at Chessgames.com Interview with GM Koneru Humpy by LatestChess.com ""Interview with Super-Grandmaster Koneru Humpy"". ChessBase News. 12 December 2007. "
Early life
Career
External links
"Ankita Das (born 17 July 1993) is an Indian table tennis player from Siliguri, West Bengal. She represented India at the 2012 Summer Olympics in Women's singles event."
"Ankita Das was born to Asim Kumar Das and Sangeeta Das on 17 July 1993 in Darjeeling, West Bengal. She completed her B.A. in Siliguri College.[1]"
Ankita Das has won championship at the 75th senior National table tennis championships (2014)[2]
Singles Finals: 16 (9–7)
Doubles Finals: 15 (8–7)
"Outcome NO Date Tournament Surface Partner Opponents in the final Score Winner 1. 23 May 2004 Lucknow, India Grass Rushmi Chakravarthi Sai Jayalakshmy Jayaram Archana Venkataraman 6–4, 6–1 Runner–up 2. 30 May 2004 New Delhi, India Hard Rushmi Chakravarthi Sanaa Bhambri Liza Pereira Viplav 7–6, 3–6, 6–7 Runner–up 3. 6 December 2004 Kolkatta, India Hard Sanaa Bhambri Wilawan Choptang Shruti Dhawan 2–6, 5–7 Runner–up 4. 13 December 2004 Gurgaon, India Clay Sanaa Bhambri Rushmi Chakravarthi Sai Jayalakshmy Jayaram 6–2, 2–6, 4–6 Winner 5. 9 May 2005 Ahmedabad, India Hard Sai Jayalakshmy Jayaram Sanaa Bhambri Shruti Dhawan 6–2, 7–5 Winner 6. 16 May 2005 Indore, India Hard Sanaa Bhambri Isha Lakhani Meghha Vakaria 5–7, 6–3, 6–2 Winner 7. 9 August 2005 London, United Kingdom Hard Sanaa Bhambri Sarah Coles Elizabeth Thomas 6–3, 6–3 Winner 8. 17 October 2005 Lagos, Nigeria Hard Sanaa Bhambri Rushmi Chakravarthi Punam Reddy W/O Runner–up 9. 23 January 2006 New Delhi, India Hard Rushmi Chakravarthi Ksenia Palkina Nicole Clerico W/O Runner–up 10. 25 May 2007 Mumbai, India Hard Sanaa Bhambri Isha Lakhani Marinne Giraud 4–6, 1–6 Winner 11. 25 August 2007 Noida, India Carpet Sanaa Bhambri Sophia Mulsap Varatchaya Wongteanchai 6–1, 6–4 Runner–up 12. 19 November 2007 Aurangabad, India Clay Sanaa Bhambri Sandhya Nagaraj Varatchaya Wongteanchai 6–7(4–7), 5–7 Runner–up 13. 9 June 2008 Gurgaon, India Carpet Sanaa Bhambri Elina Gasanova Isha Lakhani 3–6, 4–6 Winner 14. 23 August 2008 Khon Kaen, Thailand Hard Sanaa Bhambri Nungnadda Wannasuk Kanyapat Narattana 7–5, 7–6 Winner 15. 1 June 2009 New Delhi, India Hard Sanaa Bhambri Seo Soon-mi Shin Jung-yoon 6–4, 2–6, [10–1]"
"Ankita Bhambri Native name अंकिता भाम्बरी Country (sports) India Residence New Delhi, India Born (1986-10-28) 28 October 1986 New Delhi, India Turned pro 2000 Plays Right Handed (Double Handed Backhand) Prize money US$ 62,691 Singles Career record 162–91 Career titles 9 ITF Highest ranking No. 332 (1 May 2006) Doubles Career record 100–69 Career titles 8 ITF Highest ranking No. 299 (31 October 2005) Last updated on: 21 July 2008."
Ankita Bhambri is a former professional tennis player from India.
"Her highest career singles ranking is World No. 332, which she achieved in May 2006. Highest career doubles ranking is World No. 299, which she achieved in October 2005."
"In her career, Bhambri won a total of 9 ITF Women's Circuit singles and 8 doubles titles. She has played on the WTA Tour on 5 occasions, losing in round one at Hyderabad (2004); Hyderabad & Kolkata (2005); and Bangalore & Kolkata (2006)."
"Her sister Sanaa, brother Yuki and cousins Prerna and Prateek Bhambri also play tennis professionally."
"Playing for India at the Fed Cup, Bhambri has a win–loss record of 8–14."
"Outcome No. Dadate Tournament Surface Opponent in the final Score in the final Winner 1. 22 April 2002 Pune, India Clay Sheethal Goutham 6–3, 6–2 Winner 2. 26 May 2003 New Delhi, India Hard Isha Lakhani 6–3, 6–3 Runner–up 3. 23 May 2004 Lucknow, India Grass Rushmi Chakravarthi 2–6, 6–2, 6–7 Runner–up 4. 30 May 2004 New Delhi, India Hard Rushmi Chakravarthi 4–6, 4–6 Winner 5. 6 December 2004 Kolkatta, India Hard Wilawan Choptang 6–3, 7–5 Runner–up 6. 13 December 2004 Gurgaon, India Clay Rushmi Chakravarthi 7–6, 6–7, 4–6 Runner–up 7. 9 May 2005 Ahmedabad, India Hard Sun Shengnan 2–6, 2–6 Winner 8. 7 November 2005 Pune, India Clay Parul Goswami 6–1, 6–3 Winner 9. 23 January 2006 New Delhi, India Hard Ksenia Palkina 6–4, 6–3 Winner 10. 27 March 2006 Mumbai, India Clay Kazusa Ito 6–2, 5–7, 6–1 Winner 11. 12 June 2006 New Delhi, India Hard Isha Lakhani 6–3, 6–2 Runner–up 12. 25 August 2007 Noida, India Carpet Tara Iyer 6–3, 4–6, 3–6 Winner 13. 19 November 2007 Aurangabad, India Clay Sanaa Bhambri 6–3, 7–6 Runner–up 14. 9 June 2008 Gurgaon, India Carpet Rushmi Chakravarthi 4–6, 2–6 Runner–up 15. 18 October 2008 Lagos, Nigeria Hard Tamaryn Hendler 3–6, 6–2, 3–6 Winner 16. 1 June 2009 New Delhi, India Hard He Chunyan 6–3, 6–2"
2011 Asian Wrestling Championships
2013 Wrestling World Cup
2013 Asian Wrestling Championships
2014 Commonwealth Games
Pro Wrestling League
Navjot Kaur (born 10 February 1990) is an Indian wrestler. She represented India in the women's freestyle 67 kg category at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow in which she won the bronze medal.[1]
"At the tournament in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, Navjot faced Banzyaragzh Oyunsuren of Mongolia in the semi-finals of the women's freestyle 67 kg category and lost 3:1. She then contested the bronze medal match against Yuanyuan Wang of China and won the bronze medal, beating her Chinese opponent 5:0.[2]"
"In the Wrestling World Cup held in Ulan-Baatar, Mongolia, Navjot finished third and won the bronze medal in the women's freestyle 67 kg category.[3]"
"At the tournament in New Delhi, India, Navjot faced Hyekung Ham of South Korea in the semi-finals of the women's freestyle 67 kg category and won 3:1. She then qualified for the gold medal bout against Nasanburmaa Ochirbat of Mongolia but lost 1:3 to settle for the silver medal.[4]"
"Competing in the women's freestyle 69 kg category, Navjot faced Dori Yeats of Canada in the semi-finals and lost 4:0 to her. But she was able to compete in the bronze medal bout and won the bronze medal, beating home favourite Sarah Jones of Scotland 4:0.[5]"
Meena Kumari is an Indian shooter. She along with T Sawant won bronze medal in at the 2010 Commonwealth Games. She is from Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh.:[2]
Meena Kumari (sport shooter)
Personal life and family
Career
2009 Commonwealth Wrestling Championship
Other titles
"Babita Kumari (born November 20, 1989) is an Indian female wrestler, who won the gold medal in 2014 Commonwealth Games. She also won a silver medal at the 2010 Commonwealth Games and a bronze medal at the 2012 World Wrestling Championships,[4]"
"Kumari is the sister of India's first gold medalist in wrestling at the Commonwealth Games, Geeta Phogat. and the daughter of wrestler and Dronacharya Award recipient Mahavir Singh Phogat. She has a cousin Vinesh Phogat who also won gold, in the 48kg category, at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.[5][6]"
"Kumari, along with her sister and cousin, have contributed to a change in mindset and attitude towards girls and women in their village in Haryana.[7][8]"
"Amandeep Kaur (born January 1, 1976) is a member of the India women's national field hockey team. She played with the team when it won the Gold at the 2002 Commonwealth Games."
"Manika Batra (born 15 June 1995) is an Indian table tennis player. As of June 2016, she is the top-ranked female table tennis player in India and ranked 115th in the world.[2]"
"Batra was born on 15 June 1995 as the youngest of three children.[3] She hails from Naraina Vihar in Delhi[4] and began playing table tennis at the age of four.[5] Her elder sister Anchal and elder brother Sahil both played table tennis,[6] with Anchal having an influence on her during her early playing career.[7] After winning a match in a state-level under-8 tournament, Batra decided to train under coach Sandeep Gupta who suggested her to switch to Hans Raj Model School where he ran his academy.[6]"
"Batra turned down many modelling offers as a teenager.[1] When she was 16, she rejected a scholarship to train at the Peter Karlsson Academy in Sweden.[8] She studied at the Jesus and Mary College for a year before dropping out to ""concentrate"" on table tennis.[9]"
"In 2011, Batra won the silver medal in the under-21 category of the Chile Open.[5] She represented India at the 2014 Commonwealth Games at Glasgow, where she finished quarterfianalist,[6] as well as the 2014 Asian Games. She won three medals at the 2015 Commonwealth Table Tennis Championships,[7] winning silver in the women's team event (with Ankita Das and Mouma Das) as well as the women's doubles event (with Ankita Das) and bronze in the women's singles event.[10]"
Manika Batra
Other Important Informations
Achievements
"Lilima Minz (also Lilima Minz) is an Indian woman hockey player from Odisha in forward position.[2] She belongs to Bihabandh-Tanatoli village, Lanjiberna Block, Sundargarh District of Odisha. She is daughter of Anjlus Minz (father) and Sylvia Minz (mother).[3] She is a product of Sports Hostel, Panposh, Rourkela, Odisha.[4]"
She has 74 international caps and 6 goals.[5]
"Helped India win the bronze medal in the Girls U-18 Asia Cup Hockey Championship at Bangkok, Thailand (Sept 25, 2011).[6][7] Represented Indian senior women`s hockey team in the FIH World League (Round 2) at New Delhi from February 18 to 24,"
"On July 26, 2016, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed Odisha Mining Corporation to provide her a special incentive of Rs 10"
Lilima Minz
Achievements
"Ashwini Ponnappa ""Sushil Kumar, Jwala Gutta, Ashwini Ponnappa, Leander Paes, Sreesanth on the sets of KBC"" Personal information Birth name Ashwini Ponnappa Country India Born (1989-09-18) 18 September 1989 Bangalore, Karnataka, India Residence Hyderabad, India Height 5 ft 5 in (1.65 m) Years active 2007–present Handedness Right Coach Tom John Women's Doubles Highest ranking 10 (20 August 2015) Current ranking 14 (14 January 2016) Medal record Representing  India Women's badminton World Championships 2011 London Women's doubles Commonwealth Games 2010 Delhi Women's Doubles 2010 Delhi Mixed Team 2014 Glasgow Women's Doubles Uber Cup 2014 New Delhi Team 2016 Kunshan Team Asian Games 2014 Incheon Women's team South Asian Games 2016 Guwahati Women's Doubles 2016 Guwahati Women's Team 2016 Guwahati Mixed Doubles BWF profile"
Ashwini Ponnappa (born 18 September 1989) is an Indian badminton player who represents the country at the international badminton circuit in both the women's and mixed doubles disciplines. She has a successful partnership with Jwala Gutta as the pair have won many medals in international events including a gold medal at the Commonwealth Games and a historic bronze at the World Championships. The pair have also been consistently ranked among the top 20 in the BWF World Ranking reaching as high as no. 10. Ponnappa alongside Gutta won the bronze medal at the BWF World Championships in 2011 becoming the first Indian pair and women and only the second overall to win a medal at the worlds.
Ashwini Ponnappa was born on 18 September 1989 in Bangalore . Her father was a national hockey player. However Ashwini preferred badminton over hockey and started training in Badminton.
"She completed her schooling in St. Francis Xavier's Girl's High School, Bangalore and she moved to Hyderabad for her Bachelor's degree. In 2001, Ashwini Ponnappa Won her first national title in 2004 in the sub-junior girls' doubles category.She also won national title in sub-junior girls' doubles in 2005, Junior girls' doubles National title in 2006 and 2007. She won the gold medal in mixed doubles and the team events at the South Asian Games held in 2010. In the 2010 Commonwealth Games, she won the gold medal in Women's Doubles event pairing with Jwala Gutta making history of winning the first gold medal for India in the event. Gutta and Ponnappa then became household names after winning the medal in front of home crowd.[1]"
"Later on in 2011 they came up with one of their finest performances when she and Gutta etched their names in history books becoming the first Indian pair to ensure a medal at the World Badminton Championships. The pair defeated 12th seeds Vita Marrisa and Nadya Melati of Indonesia 17-21, 21-10, 21-17 to storm into the women's doubles semifinal before losing out to Chinese fifth seeds in the semis in London, thereby winning a bronze in the Badminton World Championship."
"Year Tournament Partner Opponent Score Result 2017 Syed Modi International N. Sikki Reddy Kamilla Rytter Juhl Christinna Pedersen 16-21, 18-21 02 ! Runner-up 2015 Canada Open Jwala Gutta Eefje Muskens Selena Piek 21–19, 21–16 01 ! Winner 2010 India Open Jwala Gutta Shinta Mulia Sari Yao Lei 11-21, 21-9, 15-21 02 ! Runner-up"
"Year Tournament Partner Opponent Score Result 2016 Welsh International N. Sikki Reddy Anastasia Chervyakova Olga Morozova 16-21, 11-21 02 ! Runner-up 2013 Tata India International Jwala Gutta Pradnya Gadre N. Sikki Reddy 19-21, 19-21 02 ! Runner-up"
"Sayali Gokhale Native name Marathi: सायली गोखले Born (1987-02-01) February 1, 1987 Nationality Indian Known for Badminton"
Sayali Gokhale (Marathi: सायली गोखले) (born 1 February 1987) is a female badminton player from India.
Gokhale won her first national title at Indian National Badminton Championship in 2008 in the women's singles and won the same again in 2012.[1] [2]
Sayali Gokhale
Career
ISSF World Medal Tally
Family
Apurvi Singh Chandela (born 4 January 1993) is an Indian shooter who competes in the 10 metre air rifle event. She won the gold medal in the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.[1]
"She did her schooling from Maharani Gayatri Devi Girls' School, Jaipur.She studied Sociology honours from Jesus and Mary College, Delhi University."
"Apurvi was born to a Chandela Rajput[2] family in Jaipur.[3] Her father's name is Kuldeep Singh Chandela,[4] a hotelier, and mother is Bindu Rathore.[5]"
"In 2012, Chandela won the gold medal in the 10 metres air rifle event at the National shooting championships in New Delhi, her first year in the senior circuit.[6][7] In 2014, she won four medals at the Intershoot Championships at The Hague, that included two individual and two team medals.[8] In the same year, she won the gold medal in the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, having scored 206.7 points in final, in the process creating a new games record.[9]"
"Chandela qualified for the 2016 Rio Olympics in the women's 10m air rifle event, where she finished at 34th position in the qualification round out of 51 contestants. [10]"
Apurvi Chandela
References
"Suman Bala (born December 15, 1981) is a member of the India women's national field hockey team. She hails from [Manipur]] and played with the team when it won the Gold at the Manchester 2002 Commonwealth Games."
"Vandana Kataria Personal information Born (1992-04-15) 15 April 1992 Uttar Pradesh, India Height 159 cm (5 ft 3 in) Playing position Forward Club information Current club Railways National team 2010–present India 120 (35) Medal record Women's Field Hockey Representing  India Junior World Cup 2013 Mönchengladbach Team Last updated on: 6 April 2015"
"Vandana Kataria (born 15 April 1992) is an Indian field hockey player. She plays as a forward in the Indian national team. Vandana tasted success in 2013 emerging as the country’s top goal-scorer, helping India bag a coveted bronze medal in the Junior Women’ World Cup in Monchengladbach, Germany – her five goals made her the third highest goal-scorer of the tournament. She has cited Argentine Luciana Aymar as her favorite player. Vandana has scored more than 35 goals in 130 appearances for the national team.[1]"
"Vandana Kataria was born on 15 April 1992, in Uttar Pradesh (now in Uttarakhand). Her father Nahar Singh works as a master technician in BHEL.[2] Hailing from Roshanabad village in Haridwar district, Vandana is one of the most improved players upfront for India in the last couple of years. The youngster first made her junior international debut in 2006 before going on to make her senior international debut four years later.[3]"
"Kataria was picked in the Indian junior team in 2006 and she made it to the senior national team in 2010. She was a part of the team that won bronze at the 2013 Junior World Cup in Mönchengladbach, Germany. She was India's top scorer in the tournament, having scored 5 goals in 4 games.[4] In an interview she called the bronze medal her favorite moment, ""It has to be when we won the bronze medal at the World Cup in Germany. My father was called by the media and he had tears in his eyes. So, making my father proud is the best moment of my hockey career.""[5] She won her 100th cap while playing against Canada in 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland.[6] “We clearly missed Vandana during the Hawke's Bay Cup. Her being back in the team strengthens our attack as she is good with speed and skill, to break the defence chain, which at times leaves the opponents on the back foot,” said Kataria's 21-year-old teammate Poonam Rani. At the Round 2 of the 2014–15 FIH Hockey World League, she finished with 11 goals top-scorer, with India winning the tournament.[7] “In my book, Vandana is one of the top forwards in world hockey. She is quick, can score goals, can defend and is improving all the time,” Indian women’s hockey team’s stop-gap coach Roelant Oltmans said after her performance in Round 2 League.[3]"
Suman Kundu is a wrestler from India who won a bronze medal in women's wrestling in the 63 kg freestyle category at the 2010 Commonwealth Games.[1]
Kundu hails from Kalwa in the Jind district of Haryana.[2]
Early life and junior career
Career
"Lalita Babar (born 2 June 1989) is an Indian long-distance runner. She was born in a small village in the Satara district, Maharashtra. She predominantly competes in the 3000 metres steeplechase and is the current Indian national record holder and the reigning Asian Champion in the same event. She is engaged to 2016 batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Dr. Sandip Dinkar Bhosale who also happens to be an alumini of prestigious research institutes in veterinary science, Indian Veterinary Research Institute and Central Avain Research Institute."
Babar was named as the Sports Person of the Year in the India Sports Awards 2015 organised by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports of India.She was recently honored with prestigious Arjuna Award 2016 at the hands of Hon. President of India for her contribution in the field of athletics. She is currently supported by Anglian Medal Hunt Company.
"Babar was born on 2 June 1989 in Mohi, a village in Satara district, in the Indian State of Maharashtra into a family of farmers.[1] She was born in an area which was regularly affected by droughts, which adversely affects the agriculture in the area.[2]"
Babar started her career in athletics as a long-distance runner at a young age. She won her first Gold medal in the U-20 National Championships at Pune in 2005.[3]
Babar began her career in track and field athletics as a long-distance runner.
"At the 2015 Asian Championships, Babar won the gold medal clocking 9:34.13 and broke her own personal record, the Indian national record and the games record. In the process, she qualified for the 2016 Summer Olympics. She also qualified for 2016 Summer Olympic in Marathon with her personal best of 2:38:21 at Mumbai Marathon 2015.[8] She went on to break the record again at the 2015 World Championships in Beijing with a time of 9:27.86 in her qualifying heat.[9] Being the first Indian woman to qualify for the steeplechase final, she placed eighth in the final.[10][11]"
"In April 2016, she again bettered the national record with a time of 9:27.09 at the Federation Cup National Athletics Championships in New Delhi.[12] At the Rio de Janeiro Summer Olympics, she bettered it with a time of 9:19.76 in her heat, qualifying to the final, and in the process became the first Indian in 32 years to enter a final in any track event.[13] At the final, she finished 10th with a time of 9:22.74.[14]"
Sports Person of the Year Awards (2015) - India Sports Awards 2015 (FICCI and Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports) Arjuna Award 2016 by Government of India[15][16]
Career
"Sushila Chanu Personal information Full name Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam Born (1992-02-25) 25 February 1992 Manipur, India Playing position Halfback National team 2008–present India 112 (4) Medal record Women's Field Hockey Representing  India Junior World Cup 2013 Mönchengladbach Team Last updated on: 13 July 2016"
Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam (born 25 February 1992) is an Indian field hockey player and is the current captain of Indian national hockey team.[1]
Sushila Chanu was born to Pukhrambam Shyamsundar and Pukhrambam Ongbi Lata on 25 February 1992. She is currently employed in the Central Mumbai Railway as a junior ticket collector since 2010.[2]
"Sushila Chanu led the Indian junior team to a bronze medal finish at the 2013 Junior World Cup at Mönchengladbach, Germany.[3] After the World League Semis Chanu along with Anuradha Thokchom and Lily Chanu Mayengbam were praised for their contributions in the Indian women's hockey squad. The three women hockey players were given warm reception in their hometown.[4]"
Bio
Doping
"Awards, rewards and recognition"
"Ashwini Chidananda Shetty Akkunji (born 7 October 1987) is an Indian sprint athlete from Siddapura, Udupi who specializes in 400 metres.[1] Ashwini has won Gold Medals at the 2010 Commonwealth Games and the 2010 Asian Games in 4x400 m relay team event with Manjeet Kaur, Mandeep Kaur and Sini Jose[2] and an individual gold medal in the 400 metres hurdles on 25 November 2010 at the 2010 Asian Games held at Guangzhou, in China.[3] She is also a recipient of the Rajyotsava Prashasti (2010), a civilian honour awarded by the Indian State Government of Karnataka[4]"
"Born in Siddapura, Udupi, Kundapura taluk, Udupi district, Karnataka, she was raised in a Tulu-speaking family to her mother, Yashoda Shetty Akkunji and father, B.R. Chidananda Shetty.[5][6] Ashwini hails from an agriculturist family.[7] with a sporting legacy.[8] She grew up on her family's 5 acre farmland amidst Areca nut plantations along with her elder siblings a sister, Dipti and a brother, Amith.[9] Earlier, Ashwini was employed with the Indian Railways,[10] and presently works as a manager in Corporation Bank, Patiala, Punjab.[11]"
"In July 2011 prior to Asian athletics championships in Kobe (Japan) she tested positive for anabolic steroids.[12] She was subsequently dropped from the athletics team for the event and was suspended from athletics. She denied the charges but on 23 December 2011 the NADA banned her for a year.[13] The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) upheld an appeal by the International Association of Athletics Federations against lighter sentences and handed Ashwini and 5 other athletes (Mandeep Kaur, Sini Jose, Jauna Murmu, Tiana Mary and Priyanka Panwar) a two-year ban.[14]"
"She was given the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2010. This comprised a cash payment of one hundred thousand Rupees, a 20 gramme gold medallion and a grant of priority in the allotment of house sites by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA).[15] She has been rewarded financially by both the national and state governments, as well as Indian Railways, in recognition of the gold medals won in 2010.[16][17][18][19]"
Ashwini Akkunji
"Anupa Barla Personal information Born (1994-05-06) 6 May 1994 Orissa, India Playing position Centre forward Senior career Years Team Apps (Gls) Railways National team India"
Anupa Barla (born 6 May 1994) is an Indian female field hockey player.[1]
Professional athletics career
Olympics
Asian games
"Kalayathumkuzhi Mathews Beenamol, popularly known as K. M. Beenamol (born 15 August 1975), from Kombidinjal, Idukki district, Kerala is an international athlete from India."
"Beenamol also made history with her brother K. M. Binu, when they became the first Indian siblings to win medals in a major international competition. Binu won a silver medal in men's 800m race."
She won the gold medal in women's 800m and the 4 × 400 m women's relay in the 2002 Asian Games held at Busan.[3][4][5]
"Beenamol was conferred Arjuna Award in 2000 for her exemplary achievement in her athletic career.[6][7] She is also the joint winner of India's highest sporting honour, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award in the year 2002–2003 along with Anjali Ved Pathak Bhagwat.[8][9] In 2004, she was awarded the Padma Shri.[10]"
"K. M. Beenamol is married to Dr. Vivek George, a Pathologist and has 2 children Ashwin and Haile (named after Ethiopian legend Haile Gebrselassie)"
Reena Kumari (born 15 January 1984) is an athlete from India who competes in archery.[1][2]
"Kumari represented India at the 2004 Summer Olympics.[3] She placed 43rd in the women's individual ranking round with a 72-arrow score of 620. In the first round of elimination, she faced 22nd-ranked Kristine Esebua of Georgia. Kumari pulled off a surprising upset, defeating Esebua 153-149 in the 18-arrow match to advance to the round of 32. In that round, she faced Bhutanese archer Tshering Chhoden. Kumari won the match in a 7-4 tie-breaker after a 134-134 tie in the regulation 18 arrows, advancing to the round of 16. She then lost to 6th-ranked Yuan Shu Chi of Chinese Taipei 166-148, finishing 15th in women's individual archery."
Kumari was also a member of the 8th-place Indian women's archery team.
"Manjeet Kaur (born 4 April 1982) is an Indian sprint athlete from Punjab who specializes in 400 metres. She holds the current 400 m National record of 51.05 seconds set at the National Circuit Athletic Meet held in Chennai on 16 June 2004.[1] She broke the previous record held by K. M. Beenamol since November 2001.[2] In doing so, she passed the qualifying mark for the 2004 Athens Olympics.[3] She along with Chitra K. Soman, Rajwinder Kaur and K. M. Beenamol form the team that holds the current National record in 4 x 400 metres relay.[1][4]"
"A Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) in the Punjab Police, Manjeet competed for India in 4 x 400 metres relay at 2004 Athens Olympics where her team set the current National record with a time of 3:26.89.[1] The team finished third in their heats.[5] In the next Beijing Olympics also she represented India in 4 x 400 metres relay where her team composed of Sathi Geetha, Chitra K. Soman, and Mandeep Kaur clocked a time of 3:28.83 and finished seventh in their heats.[6]"
"In Doha Asian Games in 2006, Manjeet led India to a 4 x 400 metres relay gold.[7] Earlier at the same event, she had also won a silver medal in Women's 400 metres race behind eventual winner Olga Tereshkova from Kazakhstan. In 2005, she was conferred the Arjuna Award for her contribution to the Indian athletics.[8]"
"Manjeet Kaur won the Gold Medal at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in 4x400 m relay event with Mandeep Kaur, Sini Jose and Ashwini Akkunji."
Manjeet Kaur
"Shivani Kataria (born September 27, 1997) is an Indian swimmer. She competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the women's 200 metre freestyle event; her time of 2:09.30 in the heats did not qualify her for the semifinals.She holds most of the Indian national records.She also have represented India at South Asian Aquatic Games held in Colombo 2016[1][2] She was India's first female Olympic swimmer since the 2004 Summer Olympics.[3]"
Awards and recognition
"Tintu Luka (born 26 April 1989) is an Indian track and field athlete, who predominantly competes in the middle-distance running events. Born in Valathode, Kerala, she is the national record holder in the women's 800 metres. Luka represented India at the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympic Games. In addition to being the 2015 Asian Champion in the 800 meters, she has won a total of six medals at the Asian Athletics Championships."
"Luka also competes in sprinting events including 400 metres and the 4 × 400 metres relay, and was a part of the gold medal winning relay team at the 2013 Asian Athletics Championships and the 2014 Asian Games. She is mentored by Indian Olympian P. T. Usha, and trains at the Usha School of Athletics, Koyilandy, Kerala. She was awarded Arjuna award, the country's second-highest sporting honour by Government of India in 2014."
Arjuna Award - 2014[12]
"Gagandeep Kaur Born 1994 (age 22–23) Patiala, Punjab Nationality Indian Citizenship Indian Occupation Archer"
"Gagandeep Kaur (born 1994) is an Indian archer. She is the first archer from Punjab to win a medal (bronze) in the Archery women's compound team with Jhano Hansdah and Bhagyabati Chanu, defeating Malaysia.[1] For her unexpected performance, she was even awarded with Rs 2 lakh cash award from Punjab University in Patiala.[2]"
Awards and medals
Future plans
See also
Gobi desert walk
"Sucheta Kadethankar (Marathi: सुचेता कडेठाणकर) (born 31 December 1977) is an Indian information technology developer from Pune. On July 15, 2011 she became the first Indian woman to walk across the Gobi Desert, a distance of 1,000 miles (1,600 km) in Mongolia, Asia's largest desert.[1] Kadethankar was part of a 13-member team from nine countries led by Ripley Davenport, the desert explorer, in the Gobi Desert 2011 expedition. The guided expedition was supported by four-wheel drive truck, local Mongolian guides and 12 Bactrian camels.[2]"
"Kadethankar holds a post graduate degree in history from the Fergusson College in Pune.[3] She was initially a journalist.[4] She then became an IT professional, employed as a Lead Information Developer in Symantec. Her passionate hobby, as an amateur sports person, is adventure sports involving trekking in mountains, cycling, river crossing and desert walk. She has participated in trekking to the Mount Everest Base Camp in 2008 and the Annapurna Base Camp. She has done a very large number of treks in the Sahyadri Mountains and also in near to her home Sinhagad Fort in Pune.[5][6]"
"The Gobi trek that Kadethankar completed, titled ""Gobi Crossing 2011"", was an event organized by the Explore Foundation of Ireland. It catered to young people who wished to explore the wild desert of Gobi (the fifth largest desert in the world)[7] in Mongolia. It was planned as a 60-day trek covering a distance of 1,600 kilometres (990 mi). Kadethankar was one of 13 selected walkers.[2] It included seven women but only three of them endured the trek to the last; Kadethankar was one of them.[2][8] Her expenses for the expedition were US$ 7000, while her travel was met by her employer Symantec. It was a charity trek to support the Edu Relief, a Mongolian NGO, to support free education to students in Mongolia.[8] The trek route was described by Kadethankar as drab, dreary and endless.[2]"
"She won the ""India Adventure Race Enduro 3"" award which involved cycling a distance of 180 kilometres (110 mi) and trekking over 80 kilometres (50 mi) including crossing of river. India Today has honored her as one of the 35 young achievers. She has also received the Hirakani Award. Her name finds a place in the Limca Book of Records. She was awarded for the most inspirational working woman award, She is the recipient of the Hirakani Award for her inspiring work as a woman, and also ""The Aspire India Young Achiever Award 2011"". She has also won the Rotary Leadership Training program for district 3131 of Pune.[5]"
"Kadethankar intends to undertake an expedition on the 'Great Himalayan trail', 4500 km long, that begins from Bhutan and terminates in Pakistan.[7]"
Early life
Career
"Seema Punia Antil aka Seema Punia or Seema Antil (born 27 July 1983) is an Indian discus thrower. Her personal best throw is 62.62 m (205.4 ft), achieved at the Pat Young's Throwers Classic 2016 at Salinas (California) in the US.[2]"
"Seema Antil was born in Khewda village of Sonipat district in Haryana.[3] Her sporting career began at the age of 11 years as a hurdler and a long-jumper, but later took to discus throw.[4] Her gold medal win at the World Junior Championships in 2000 in Santiago earned her the nickname .'Millennium Child'[5] She studied in the Government College, Sonipat."
"Antil originally won the gold medal at the 2000 World Junior Championships, but lost it due to a positive drugs test for pseudoephedrine. As per the rules in force at that time for such an offence, her National Federation issued her a public warning after stripping her of the medal.[6] She won a bronze medal at the next World Junior Championships in 2002."
"She won the silver medal at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, and was honoured with Bhim Award by the Haryana state government on 26 June 2006. Her absence from the 2006 Asian Games attracted considerable media attention.[7] She had tested positive for a steroid (stanozolol) prior to the Games but was cleared to participate by her National Federation. She, however, opted out of the team for the Games.[8] She won the bronze medal at the 2010 Commonwealth Games. She finished 13th at the 2012 London Olympics. In 2014, she won the silver medal at the Commonwealth Games and a gold at the Asian Games.[9]"
"Antil is married to Ankush Punia, her coach, and a former Discus thrower who represented India at 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens.[10]"
"Manju Bala Swami (born 1 July 1989) is an Indian track and field athlete competing in the hammer throw. She won the bronze medal in the event in the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea."
"Her bronze medal was briefly upgraded to silver after the original winner Zhang Wenxiu failed a doping test,[1][2][3] but Zhang was later reinstated as the winner.[4]"
Childhood and early training
2012 Summer Olympics
"Garima Chaudhary (born April 2, 1990 in Meerut) is an Indian judoka. She represented India as the country's sole judoka in the Women's (63 kg) category at the 2012 London Olympics.[1][2]"
"Born to parents hailing from a middle class family, Chaudhary was inclined to sports during her childhood. She was good at sports such as kabaddi, athletics and cricket. While Chaudhary's father remained concerned about her education, her mother constantly supported her interest in sports. She represented her native state of Uttar Pradesh initially. Due to lack of suitable support from the state's sports association, she began representing Haryana in national-level competitions.[3]"
"Since 2004, Chaudhary has been training with Jiwan Sharma and Divya Sharma at Patiala-based National Institute of Sports. Due to lack of proper facilities, she had to practice with boys. Chaudhury found this to be a good way to train.[3] Sharma says that attributes such as self-belief, hard work and a winning attitude are Chaudhary's strengths.[4]"
"She participated at the 2011 World Judo Championships held in Paris and at the World Cup as a part of her qualification for the 2012 Summer Olympics. At the 2012 Asian Judo Championships held in Tashkent, she finished seventh in the 63 kg category.[5][6] As a result of her performances, she earned 34 points and the eligibility to represent India at the London Olympics.[5]"
"In order to prepare for the Olympics, Chaudhary trained in Germany and France. She underwent a more competition-oriented training, studied her opponents, and focused on specific fitness aspects.[4]"
"Surinder Kaur (born July 12, 1982 in Shahbad Markanda, Kurukshetra District, Haryana) is a member of the India women's national field hockey team. She hails from Haryana and played with the team when it won Gold at the 2004 Hockey Asia Cup."
Profile
"Khusbir Kaur (born 9 July 1993) is an Indian athlete, a 20-kilometre racewalker.[1] She first came into limelight after winning bronze in the 10,000-metre (6.2 mi) walk race at the 2012 Asian Junior Athletics Championships held at Colombo, Sri Lanka. She participated in the 2013 World Championships in the 20 km walk category. She clocked 1:34:28 and finished 39th. At the 2014 Asian walking championships in Japan, she came third with a timing of 1:33:37 and bettered her own national record.[2]"
Khusbir Kaur is supported by Anglian Medal-Hunt Company.[3]
"Kaur hails from a small town in Amritsar called Rasulpur Kalan. She has notched up junior national records in the 5 km and 10 km event. After a string of successful performances in the national junior circuit, she has performed well in the international circuit – finishing second in the Youth Asian Games and third in the Junior Asian Games (2012). She had a strong 5th-place performance in the senior Walking Asian Championship in Japan."
"Mamta Kharab (born 26 January 1982, Rohtak, Haryana) is the former captain of the Indian women's hockey team.[1] During the 2002 Commonwealth Games, she scored the winning goal which gave India the Gold. She also served as the model for the character of Komal Chautala in the 2007 Bollywood hit, Chak De India.Now she is working in Haryana police as a Deputy Supritendent of Police.[2] She is a recipient of the Arjuna Award."
"Known as 'golden girl' of Indian women hockey team, Mamta Kharab was born on 26 January 1982. She was declared the best player and the best scorer in the Junior Asia Cup hockey tournament held in Malayasia, where India won the bronze medal.She has also played a leading role in India's victory in the Common Wealth Games held in Manchester in 2002."
"Moreover, she was declared Best Player of the Tournament and Best Scorer of the Tournament in Junior Asia Cup, Malaysia 2000. Above all, keeping in view her best performance in hockey, Haryana Govt. decorated her with prestigious ""Bhim Award"" and Govt. of India with ""Arjun Award"" in the year 2003."
"Harwant Kaur (born 5 July, 1980) is an Indian discus thrower and shot putter. She won the silver medal at the 2002 Asian Championships,[1] finished fourth at the 2003 Asian Championships and seventh at the 2006 Commonwealth Games. In addition she competed at the 2004 Olympic Games and was ranked 13th in the qualifying rounds. Her personal coach is Parveer Singh. At 2010 Commonwealth Games, she won the silver medal in the Discus throw event.[2]"
"Her personal best throw is 63.05 metres, achieved in August 2004 in Kiev. She contested at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, but failed to reach the finals, and was ranked 17th in the qualifiers with a throw of 56.42 m."
Harwant Kaur
"Laxmirani Majhi (born 26 January 1989 in Bagula, Ghatshila, Jharkhand) from Chittaranjan, Asansol is a female Indian right handed recurve archer."
"Laxmi is from the Santhal tribe; she grew up in Bagula village in East Singhbhum district, Jharkhand. Her first chance to become an archer was offered to her when the selectors for the archery academy visited her Government School.[1] Laxmi work with Indian Railways in Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh [2]"
"She competed in the individual recurve event and the 2015 World Archery Championships – She also finished 4th in the Individual Event, losing out on the Bronze Medal. team recurve event where she won the silver medal at the 2015 World Archery Championships in Copenhagen, Denmark.[3]"
"She was the part of the team that qualified for 2016 Rio Olympics. [4] The Indian women's recursive team, consisting of Laxmirani Majhi, Bombayla Devi Laishram and Deepika Kumari, finished 7th in the ranking round. The team won their match against Colombia in the round of 16 before losing the quarterfinal match against Russia. [5]"
Awards and recognition
Early Life
"Bombayla Devi Laishram (born 22 February 1985 in Imphal) is an Indian archer, who has represented India at international events since 2007. Born in Imphal East, Manipur Laishram made her national debut in 1997.[1]"
"Laishram was born on 22 February 1985,[2] in Manipur to M. Jamini Devi, a local archery coach and Manglem Singh, the state coach for Manipur’s handball team.[3] She started archery at the age of 11, and later joined the Sports Authority of India and started training there.[4] Laishram revealed in an interview that she started archery following her family's tradition in the sport.[5] She currently resides in Imphal, Manipur.[6]"
"She represented India at the 2008 Beijing Olympics in the women's individual as well as team events. She, along with Dola Banerjee and Pranitha Vardhineni was ranked sixth in the team event qualifiers. They got a bye in the round of 16, but lost to China by 206–211 in the quarterfinals. In the individual event, she was ranked 22nd in the qualifiers, but lost to Iwona Marcinkiewicz of Poland by 101–103 in the round of 64.[7]"
"At the 2012 London Olympics, she bowed out in the second round of the women’s individual recurve event losing 2-6 to Mexico’s Aída Román on the 30 July 2012.[8] In the team event, India lost in the first round 211-210 to Denmark.[9]"
Arjuna Award - 2012[14]
Bombayla Devi Laishram
Accolades
Nirupama Devi (Bengali: নিরুপমা দেবী)(7 May 1883 – 7 January 1951)[1] was a fiction writer from Berhampore in Murshidabad district. Her literary pseudonym was Srimati Devi. Nirupama Devi's father was Nafar Chandra Bhatta who was a judicial employee. She was educated at home.
Uchchhrnkhal was her first novel. Her other works include:
Nirupama Devi received the 'Bhubanmohini Gold Medal' in 1938 and 'Jagattarini Gold Medal' in 1943 from the University of Calcutta in recognition of her contribution to literature.
Yumnam Renu Bala Chanu (born 2 October 1986) is an Indian Woman Weightlifter. She won the gold medal in the Women's 58 kg category at the 2006 Commonwealth Games.[1] She defended her gold medal again at the 2010 Commonwealth Games at Delhi.[2] The 24-year-old Guwahati-based Northeast Frontier Railway employee set a new Games snatch record with a lift of 90 kg in her final attempt. Renu added 107 kg to her snatch record to total 197 to win the gold medal for the second successive time.[3]
She won the Arjuna Award in 2014.[4]
Career
Coaching
"Purnima Mahato (Hindi: पूर्णिमा महतो, Bengali: পূর্ণিমা মাহাতো ) is an Indian archer and archery coach from Jamshedpur, India.[1] She has won the Indian national archery championships and a silver medal at the 1998 Commonwealth Games. She was a coach for the Indian national team at the 2008 Summer Olympics and was selected to coach the team at the 2012 Summer Olympics. She was awarded Dronacharya award from President of India for 2013 on 29 August 2013.[2][3][4][5]"
"As a child, Mahato watched archery at a range in Birsanagar, Jamshedpur.[6] She trained there before moving to a range at Burmamines, Jamshedpur when the one in Birsanagar closed.[6] She made it to the Indian national team in 1992, and moved to Delhi to train with the team.[6]"
"Mahato is an archery coach. Starting in 1994, she coached at the Tata Archery Academy, a position she had held as of 2012.[1][7][11] Archers she has personally coached include 2012 Summer Olympian Deepika Kumari.[12][13][14][15][16][17]"
"Mahato has been a coach for Indian national teams at several events[1][1] including the 2005 Senior World Outdoor Archery Championship at Spain, where her team earned a silver medal.[1] She also coached the Indian side at the 2007 Senior Asian Archery Championship in China,[1] where the men's team she coached finished first and the women's team she coached finished third.[1] She was an assistant coach for India at the 2008 Summer Olympics.[18][19] She also coached the Indian side at the 2008 World Cup in Croatia,[1] where her archers earned a silver medal and a bronze medal at the event.[1] She coached India at the 2009 World Youth Archery Championship.[20] She coached the three Indian archers at the 2010 Archery World Cup Grand.[21] She coached the Indian national team at the 2010 Asian Games, where her archers earned two bronze medals in the individual events.[22] She coached the Indian national team at the 2010 Commonwealth games, with her archers earning three gold and two bronze medals.[7] At the Global Sports Summit TURF 2011, she was named the coach of the year.[11].She got Ram Dayal Munda Award for BestCoach of the year from Government of Jharkhand on Olympic Day Run celebrations,23 June 2012 at Ranchi.[23]"
Mahato was selected to represent India at the 2012 Summer Olympics as the national team's coach.[1][24][25]
Purnima Mahato was awarded Dronacharya award from President of India for 2013 on 29 August 2013.[2][3][4][5][26]
Purnima Mahato
Career
Awards and recognition
"Sakshi Malik (born 3 September 1992) is an Indian freestyle wrestler. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, she won the bronze medal in the 58 kg category, becoming the first Indian female wrestler to win a medal at the Olympics and the fourth female Olympic medalist from the country.[6][7] She is a part of the JSW Sports Excellence Program, along with fellow female wrestlers Vinesh Phogat, Babita Kumari and Geeta Phogat.[8]"
"Malik had previously won the silver medal at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, and the bronze medal at the 2015 Asian Wrestling Championships in Doha.[9][10]"
"Malik was born on 3 September 1992 in Mokhra village[11] of Haryana's Rohtak district to Sukhbir, a bus conductor with Delhi Transport Corporation, and Sudesh Malik, a supervisor at a local anganwadi (health clinic).[12][13] According to her father, she was motivated to take up wrestling from seeing her grandfather Badlu Ram, who was also a wrestler.[12][14] She began training in wrestling at the age of 12 under a coach, Ishwar Dahiya, at an akhara in Chhotu Ram Stadium, Rohtak."
"Malik's first success as a professional wrestler in the international arena came in 2010 at the Junior World Championships where she won the bronze medal in the 58 kg freestyle event.[15] At the 2014 Dave Schultz International Tournament, she won gold in the 60 kg category.And after that she never stopped and maintained the passion and dedication towards the game."
"Malik began her campaign at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games winning her quarterfinal bout against Edwige Ngono Eyia of Cameroon by a 4–0 margin. In the semifinal, she faced Braxton Stone of Canada whom she defeated 3–1 to assure herself of a medal. Her opponent in the final was Aminat Adeniyi of Nigeria who defeated her 4–0 in a closely contested bout.[16] At the 2014 World Championships in Tashkent, she faced Anta Sambou of Senegal in the Round of 16, and won the bout 4–1. She crashed out of the tournament after a 1–3 loss to Petra Olli of Finland.[17]"
"At the 2015 Asian Championships in Doha, Qatar, in a total of five rounds in the 60 kg category, Malik battled through two rounds to finish in third position and claim a bronze medal. In the first round, she faced Luo Xiaojuan of China but was beaten 4–5 by fall verdict. She came back strongly in the second round to beat Munkhtuya Tungalag of Mongolia 13–0, before losing in the third round to Yoshimi Kayama of Japan. She was able to clinch the bronze medal in the fourth round, beating Ayaulym Kassymova of Kazakhstan.[18]"
"Malik is currently employed with Indian Railways in the commercial department of its Delhi division, in the Northern Railway zone and is a part of the JSW Sports Excellence Program.[8][22] Following her bronze medal win at Rio, she was promoted from senior clerk to gazetted officer rank.[23]"
"Malik has completed a master's degree in physical education from Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak.[24][25] In September 2016, she was appointed as the university's wrestling director.[26]"
"Padma Shri (2017) - fourth highest Indian national honour[28] Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna (2016) - highest sporting honour of India[29] Multiple cash prizes totaling over ₹5.7 crore (US$850,000) from the Indian Railways, the Indian Olympic Association, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, the Government of Delhi,[30] various state governments, including Haryana,[31] Madhya Pradesh,[32] Uttar Pradesh, from private bodies such as the JSW Group[33] and from political groups including the Indian National Lok Dal.[34] Promotion to gazetted officer rank by her employer, the Indian Railways.[23] Class 2 job offer from the Government of Haryana.[34] 500 yd2 land grant from the Government of Haryana.[26]"
Early life and background
Antara Kak Occupation Film director Film producer Years active 2002-present Parent(s) Siddharth Kak Gita Siddharth
"Antara Kak is an Indian film director and producer, predominantly based in India.[1] She is daughter of Siddharth Kak (of Surabhi fame) and his wife, Gita Siddharth. Antara won acclaim and an award for her debut venture: A Life in Dance - Daksha Sheth."
Antara studied English literature at Mithibai College.
Antara Kak
As Actor
As Director
Personal life
Geetu Mohandas at the Internet Movie Database
"Geetu Mohandas Born Gayathri Mohandas (1981-02-14) 14 February 1981 Kannur, India Other names Geetu Occupation Film director, actress Years active 1986 – present Spouse(s) Rajeev Ravi (2009 – present) Children Aradhana Awards Kerala State Film Award for Best Child Artist (1986), Kerala State Film Award for Best Actress (2004)"
"Gayathri Mohandas (born 14 February 1981) known professionally as Geetu Mohandas is an Indian film actress and director known for her works in Malayalam cinema and Bollywood.[1][2] In 2013, she directed the socio political film Liar's Dice which has received two National Film Awards, was premiered at Sundance Film Festival,[3] and has been chosen as India's entry for the U.S. 87th Academy Awards, popularly known as the Oscars.[4]"
"Geetu's actual name is Gayathri Mohandas.[5] Affectionately called Geetu by her family, the name was adopted as her screen name when she starred in her first movie Onnu Muthal Poojyam Vare in 1986 with Mohanlal in the lead role. Geetu was five years old then and captured the hearts of Malayalam filmgoers as a fatherless child who discovers a father in an anonymous telephone caller.[6] She acted in the top grosser En Bommukutty Ammavukku as the title role, which was the Tamil remake of Fazil's Ente Mamattikkuttiyammakku (Malayalam) done by Baby Shalini in the title role.[7] Geetu's first movie as an adult was Life is Beautiful starring Mohanlal in the lead. She went on to act in Thenkasi Pattanam, Valkannadi, Nammal Thammil and several other Malayalam movies. The high point of her career was Akale directed by Shyamaprasad, and produced by Tom George Kolath which won her the Kerala State Award for Best Actress in 2004. Geetu also won the Filmfare Award for Best Actress – Malayalam, for her role as Rose, in Akale."
"She was born as Gayathri to Mohandas and Sudha on February 14, 1981 at Kannur. Her mother belongs to Tamil community. She has a brother, Arjun.[9] On 14 November 2009, she married cinematographer Rajeev Ravi.[10] The wedding took place at night in Kochi, Kerala, India."
"2004: Kerala State Film Award for Best Actress – Akale, Oridam 1986: Kerala State Film Award for Best Child Artist – Onnu Muthal Poojyam Vare"
2004: Filmfare Award for Best Actress – Malayalam – Akale
2004 - Special Jury Mention - Akale
Notable filmography
As director
Television
Acting
Directing
Sripriya at the Internet Movie Database Sripriya Filmography at SpicyOnion
"Sripriya Born (1956-03-05) 5 March 1956 Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India Years active 1974–present Spouse(s) Rajkumar Sethupathy (m 1988-present) Children Sneha, Nagarjun"
"Sripriya is an actress who played leading roles in the 1970s and 1980s in South India. She has acted in over 300 films in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and Malayalam language films. Over 200 of these are Tamil films."
"She first faced the camera for the film Murugan Kaattiya Vazhi directed by P Madhavan in 1974. Following that, she acted with Rajinikanth, Kamal Hassan, Sivaji Ganesan, and Jaishankar among others."
"She was Rajinikanth's leading lady in several of his films. She went on to act with Rajinikanth in 28 films. She has also paired in a number of films with Kamalhasan as well, second only to Sridevi who has been paired with Kamalhassan for over 30 films. She also acted in a number of films which starred both Kamal and Rajini. This list of films includes Illamai Oonjaladukirathu, Aadu Puli Aatam, Alladinum Arputha Vilakkakum, Aval Appadithen, Natchathiram.[1]"
"Following her acting career, Sripriya took to directing movies. In her directorial debut film, Malini 22 Palayamkottai, she took on the issue of sexual assaults on women. In an interview to the Indian Express, she has stated that ""making this film is my way of registering [my] anger.""[3]"
"She has also directed television serials. By 2007, she had directed five serials, of which she considers Viduthalai the best serial. She has directed five films, two in Tamil, two in Kannada and one in Telugu with Venkatesh, Meena, Nadiya Moidu titled Drushyam."
"Sripriya is also a visual artist and the proceeds from her paintings are given to social causes, mainly for children. Additionally, she is a writer and has penned the dialogues for several TV serials and films."
"Sripriya was born in Chennai. She attended the Church Park convent school in Chennai. She is a trained classical dancer and hails from a professional music family including her uncles Natiyakalachakravarthy Padmashri K N Dhandayuthapani Pillai and Nadaswara Chakravarthy Shri Rajamanickam Pillai. In 1988, she married the actor Rajkumar Sethupathy. The couple have two children, a daughter, Sneha and a son, Nagarjun."
Cannes Film Festival
"Gitanjali Rao Born 1972 (age 44–45) Mumbai Nationality Indian Occupation Film director, animator Known for Printed Rainbow True Love Story"
"Gitanjali Rao (born 1972) is an Indian theatre artist, animator and film maker."
"Gitanjali graduated as an applied artist from Sir. J. J. Institute of Applied Art, Mumbai, in 1994. Two animated short films independently produced and directed by her, Orange and 'Printed Rainbow', have won 28 Awards. Her debut animation short, Printed Rainbow (2006) had won the Kodak Short Film Award, Small Golden Rail and the Young Critics Award at Critics Week section at Cannes in 2006. The film has also won the Golden Conch for Best Animation Film in the 2006 Mumbai International Film Festival.[1][2]"
"She has served in the jury at various festivals including the 2011 Cannes Critic's Week short films jury.[3] In 2013, she directed, a segment in Shorts, a compilation of five short films, along with Neeraj Ghaywan, Vasan Bala, Anubhuti Kashyap and Shlok Sharma, and produced by Anurag Kashyap.[4]"
"At the 2014 Cannes Film Festival, her animated short, True Love Story was one of 10 selected short films at Critics' Week.[5][6]"
Gitanjali Rao at the Internet Movie Database
"Rajni Basumatary रजनि बसुमतारी ৰজনী বসুমতাৰী Born Rangapara, Assam, India Occupation Director, producer, Screenwriter Years active 2007—present"
"Rajni Basumatary (Assamese: ৰজনী বসুমতাৰী) (Bodo: रजनि बसुमतारी) is an Indian actress, producer, writer and director, better known for her role of Mary Kom's mother as Mangte Akham Kom in the 2014 film Mary Kom and in The Shaukeens.[1][2][3] She is also the brand Ambassador of Systematic Voters' Education And Electoral Participation (SVEEP).[3] Rajni has written and Produced the highly acclaimed, award winning Assamese feature film Anurag and for her Directorial Debut Raag in 2014, which was released in all major cities in India.[4]"
"After completing her schooling from her hometown Rangapara, she moved to Guwahati for higher studies. She did her graduation from Handique Girls College in Assamese literature."
Rajni Basumatary
"Bhavna Talwar (Hindi: भावना तलवार) is an Indian journalist turned film director. Her debut film, Dharm (2007), won the Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration at the 2007 National Film Award.[1] Currently she is working on Happi, which is expected to be released sometime 2015."
"She started her career as a journalist at Asian Age, covering film, theatre, fashion, and later worked for over eight years as an assistant director with an Ad film company.[2] She was nominated as agency producer for the ""The Rain - Reebok"" commercial at the Cannes Ad Fest.[3]"
"Her first film Dharm (2007), starring Pankaj Kapur and Supriya Pathak, premiered as the closing film at the World Cinema Section at the Cannes Film Festival 2007.[4]"
"She created a controversy recently by claiming that her film Dharm (2007) should have been selected as India's official Foreign Language Film submission for the 80th Academy Awards, but was rejected in favor of Eklavya: The Royal Guard (2007) because of the personal connections of the latter film's director and producer. She filed a complaint in the Bombay High Court in which she accused the Indian selection committee of bias, but later dropped it because the Foreign Language Film submission deadline had already passed.[5]"
Bhavna Talwar at the Internet Movie Database Interview with Bhavna Talwar on her film Dharm Interview at indiafm
Bhavna Talwar
As producer
Music
References
As director
For films
For TV shows
As writer
As editor
"Leena Yadav (born 6 January 1971) is an Indian Filmmaker and producer who started her career in the television industry and gradually moved on to making feature films. Her first international feature film, Parched, premiered at Toronto International Film Festival in 2015.[1][2]"
"Born to an Indian Army General in Madhya Pradesh, she graduated with Economics honours from Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Delhi. She did Mass Communications from Sophia College, Mumbai.[2][3][4]"
"She is married to Aseem Bajaj, an Indian Cinematographer well known for his poetic imagery on films like Hazaron Khwahishen Aisi, Shabd, Teen Patti, U Me Aur Hum and Chameli to name a few. She met Aseem while directing her first TV show This Week That Year.[3]"
"Having captivated by the job of Film editing, while she was working with a diploma in Mass Communications background, she learned Film editing. Without working as an assistant to anyone, she learned about direction and script writing from editing itself. While working as an editor for 'ad films'- corporate shows – and television serials, she got an offer to direct Television (TV) show This Week That Year for Star Movies. With success, she floated her own production house with Nikhil Kapoor to produce and direct shows for Star Bestsellers.[1][2][3][5]"
"Leena Yadav at the Internet Movie Database What's making Leena Yadav worried? Latest Films directed by Leena Yadav INTERVIEW: Director: Leena Yadav Big B perfect at tennis, violin, piano: Director Leena Yadav Let the game begin – Leena Yadav explores gambling and its psychology in ‘Teen Patti'. “The story of Teen Patti is a metaphor for life” – Leena Yadav Bollywood previews – Teen Patti – A high tension drama based on gambling to prove a mathematical theory. After Kites, Hollywood editor for Teen Patti"
Early life and education
"Vijaya Mehta Mehta in 2012 Born Vijaya Jaywant (1934-11-04) 4 November 1934 Baroda, British India (present-day Gujarat, India) Children Anahita Uberoi Awards 1975 Sangeet Natak Akademi Award 1985 Asia Pacific Film Festival, Best Actress: Party 1986 National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress: Rao Saheb"
"Vijaya Mehta (born 4 November 1934[1]) is a noted Indian film and theatre director and also an actor in many films from the Parallel Cinema. She is a founder member of Mumbai-based theatre group, Rangayan with playwright Vijay Tendulkar, and actors Arvind Deshpande and Shreeram Lagoo. She is most known for her acclaimed role in film Party (1984) and for her directorial ventures, Rao Saheb (1986) and Pestonjee (1988). As the founder member of theatre group, Rangayan, she became a leading figure in the experimental Marathi theatre of the 1960s.[2]"
"Vijaya Mehta was born Vijaya Jaywant in Baroda, Gujarat in 1934 in a CKP family.[3] She graduated from Mumbai University. She studied theatre with Ebrahim Alkazi in Delhi and with Adi Marzban."
"She became a major figure in 60s Marathi experimental theatre. She is a founder member of theatre group, Rangayan with playwright Vijay Tendulkar, Arvind Deshpande and Shreeram Lagoo.[4]"
"She first married Harin Khote, son of actress Durga Khote, however he died at an early age, leaving behind two young sons. Thereafter, she married Farrokh Mehta.[5]"
Vijaya Mehta at the Internet Movie Database
Malayalam
Tamil
Director
Selected filmography
Actress
Telugu
Vijaya Nirmala Born (1946-02-20) 20 February 1946 Spouse(s) Late K. S. Murthy (ex husband) Krishna (husband) Children Vijaya Naresh (son)
"Vijaya Nirmala is an Indian film actress, producer and director known for her works predominantly in Telugu cinema. She has directed 44 films in Telugu, and In 2002, entered the Guinness Book of Records as the female director to direct the highest number of films.[1] In 2008, she received the Raghupathi Venkaiah Award for her contributions to Telugu cinema.[2]"
"Vijaya Nirmala was born in Tamil Nadu to a Telugu family from Andhra. Her father has worked in film production. She has a son Naresh who is also an actor, from her first marriage, after divorcing with her first husband, she started living together with actor Krishna who was already married and got married to him. .[3]"
"Vijaya Nirmala entered cinema at the age of eleven, as a child artist with Panduranga Mahatmyam (1957). In 1964, she starred opposite Prem Nazir and rose to stardom with Malayalam hit Bhargavi Nilayam.[4] And in 1967, she starred again opposite Prem Nazir in Udhyogastha by P. Venu. She debuted in Telugu industry through the film Rangula Ratnam.[5]"
"Her debut film in Tamil was Engaveettu Penn,[1] which was followed by movies including Panama Paasama, En Annan, Gnanaoli, and Uyira Maanama. She met her second husband Krishna on the sets of Saakshi (1967), her second film in Telugu, and they starred together in 47 films. It was Saakshi that kindled her interest in direction.[1] To date, she has acted in over 200 films with 25 each in Malayalam and Tamil, and the remaining in Telugu.[1]"
"Her small screen debut came with Balaji Telefilms' Pelli Kanuka. Soon after, she launched her own banner Vijaya Krishna Movies and produced 15 films. She made her directorial debut with a Malayalam film on a budget of 3 lakhs. She made her directorial debut in Telugu with Meena and directed 40 films in Telugu and one film each in Malayalam (directorial debut film) and Tamil (Kungumachimizh).[1] Currently the actress-director is based in Hyderabad and is managing Padmalaya Studios and Padmalaya Telefilms Ltd.[6]"
Director
Assistant Director
Story Writer
Screenplay Writer
Directorial career
As an Actress
"Reema Kagti Reema Kagti(Left) with Zoya Akhtar Born Reema Kakati 1972 (age 44–45) Guwahati, Assam, India Nationality Indian Occupation Director, Screenwriter Years active 2007—present"
"Reema Kagti(Also spelled Kakati) (Assamese: ৰীমা কাগতি (কাকতি)) (born 1972) is an Indian film director and screenwriter, who works in Bollywood. She made her debut as director with critically acclaimed Honeymoon Travels Pvt. Ltd. (2007), which was followed by neo-noir, Talaash (2012)."
"Reema was born in Guwahati. She did her Bachelor of Arts in English Literature from Sophia College, Mumbai. She also pursued a post graduate diploma in Social Communications Media at the Sophia Polytechnic."
"Reema Kagti has worked as an assistant director with many leading directors including Farhan Akhtar (Dil Chahta Hai, Lakshya), Ashutosh Gowariker (Lagaan), Honey Irani (Armaan), and Mira Nair (Vanity Fair).[1]"
"She has been an associate with Excel Entertainment since its inception, as she has assisted both Farhan and Zoya Akhtar in all their films and commercials to date.[2]"
"Reema made her directorial debut with Honeymoon Travels Pvt. Ltd. in 2006.[3] Her next film, Talaash, was a suspense drama starring Aamir Khan, Rani Mukerji and Kareena Kapoor.[4]"
Reema Kagti
Reema Kagti at the Internet Movie Database Reema Kagti: Filmography and Profile
Revathy S Varmha is an Indian director.
"Varmha began to write scripts for commercials at age 16. Living in New Delhi, she began directing commercials in the 1990s when she took over for the director of a Rexona spot and by 2005 had directed more than 480 commercials, including spots for Cadbury, Parker Pens, Nakshatra Jewellery and the Hyundai Santro.[1]"
"In 2005 Varmha began directing movies.[1] Her debut was the Tamil family film June R.[2] She proceeded to direct two Telugu films, the Bollywood remake of June R entitled Aap Ke Liye Hum, and the Sri Lankan film Yasoda Kanna, which was criticized for its political stance.[3] In 2012 she directed Maad Dad, her first Malayalam film, with a second Malayalam film in pre-production in December 2012.[4]"
Revathy S. Varmha
Official website Parul Yadav at the Internet Movie Database
"Parul Yadav Born Mumbai, Maharashtra, India Residence Bangalore, Karnataka, India Occupation Film actress, television host, model Years active 2000–present Website www.parulyadav.com"
"Parul Yadav is an Indian television and film actress and a model, who has appeared in various television shows and in South Indian films, primarily in Kannada along with a few Malayalam and Tamil films. Following her modelling career, she made her acting debut in the television series Bhagyavidhaata which aired on colors tv in Hindi. She appeared in the Kannada film Govindaya Namaha (2011), which earned her the South Indian International Movie Award for Best Debutant and the Bangalore Times Best Newcomer Award, besides a nomination for Udaya Awards for Best Female Actor.[1] For her performance in Bachchan, she won the South Indian International Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress and was nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Award at the 61st Filmfare Awards South."
Parul's career began as a model in Mumbai. She made her acting debut in the 2004 Tamil film Dreams starring Dhanush and Diya. She switched over to television with the daily soap-opera Bhagyavidhaata which has aired on Colors since 2009. This was soon followed by the comedy reality show Comedy Ka Maha Muqabala on Star Plus where she was a participant representing the team Raveena Ke Mohre.
"In 2011, she made her Kannada film debut in Govindaya Namaha which went on to become one of the highest grossing films of that year. She played the role of Mumtaz, a Muslim girl falling in love with Govinda played by Komal Kumar. Her portrayal won her a SIIMA Best Debutant award (2013) and Bangalore Times Best Newcomer Award (2013) and a nomination in the Udaya Film Awards for the best actor category for that year.[1] The song ""Pyarge Aagbittaite"" featuring her went viral on the internet sites and propelled her stardom.[2] The same pairing in the 2012 film Nandeesha, however, could not continue the success at the box-office. Parul Yadav won the 'Glamour Icon of the Year' award given away by Suvarna TV channel."
"In 2014, Yadav signed for two movies that became landmark projects of her career, Vaastu Prakaara and Uppi 2. She played the role of an advocate in Vaastu Prakaara, which was directed by renowned film-maker Yogaraj Bhat. In Uppi 2 she is seen in a cameo opposite its director Upendra. Her latest release is K. M. Chaitanya's Aatagara featuring an ensemble cast and Jessie. Her performance in Jessie won her widespread appreciation. Upcoming films of Parul include Seizer and Vijayaditya.[5]"
"Parul's biggest movie of her career is Killing Veerappan, directed in multiple languages by the talented film-maker Ram Gopal Varma. The movie also marks Parul's official entry into Bollywood. Killing Veerappan is about the circumstances that led to the killing of dreaded forest brigand Veerappan. Kannada superstar Shiva Rajkumar plays the role of a police officer and Parul is paired with him. Killing Veerappan will also be dubbed and released in Tamil and Telugu."
"Sharda Mukherjee (born 24 February 1919, Mumbai[1]) was born in a Maharashtrian family as Sharda Pandit and was governor of Indian state of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. She was governor of Gujarat from 1978 to 1983. She was wife of Air Chief Marshal Subroto Mukerjee. Sharda Mukherjee was born as Sharda Pandit in Rajkot in a Maharashtrian family. She met Air Marshal Subroto Mukherjee in Bombay in 1937. They got married in 1939 and had a son."
She was member of 3rd and 4th Lok Sabha from Ratnagiri (Lok Sabha constituency) of Mahrashtra.[2]
Early life and family
Career
"Rajendra Kumari Bajpai Lieutenant Governor of Pondicherry In office 2 May 1995 – 22 April 1998 Personal details Born (1925-02-08)8 February 1925 Laluchak, Bhagalpur district, Bihar. Died 17 June 1999(1999-06-17) (aged 74) Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh Political party Indian National Congress"
"Rajendra Kumari Bajpai (8 February 1925 – 17 July 1999) was an Indian National Congress politician, a former Union Minister of India and former Lieutenant Governor of Pondicherry. She was elected three times to the Lok Sabha from Sitapur constituency in 1980, 1984 and 1989 and was a close confidant of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi."
"She was born on 8 February 1925 in Laluchak, Bhagalpur district, Bihar to Pt. S.K. Mishra, she was the granddaughter of Ravi Shankar Shukla and niece of Shyama Charan Shukla[1] After her schooling she received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Allahabad University.[2]"
"She married D.N. Bajpai, a teacher by profession in 1947, who also took part in the Quit India Movement of 1942. The couple had a son Ashok Bajpai and a daughter.[2]"
"She was member of the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh from 1962 to 77; remained the head of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) and a close confidant of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.[3] Eventually she held various ministries in the Cabinet of Uttar Pradesh (1970–77).[2] Thereafter, she was elected to the Lok Sabha three consecutive times from Sitapur in 1980, 1984 and 1989.[4] She became Union Minister of State with independent charge of Ministry of Social Welfare (1984–86), Minister of State with independent charge of Labour (1986–87) and Minister of State with independent charge of Welfare (1987–89) with Rajiv Gandhi as Prime Minister.[5] She was appointed lieutenant governor of Pondicherry from 2 May 1995 to 22 April 1998.[6]"
"She died on 17 July 1999 at Allahabad after a prolonged kidney-related illness. She was survived by her husband and children.[7] At the time of her death, her son Ashok Bajpai was president of the District Congress committee, while Dr Ranjana Bajpai, her daughter-in-law was president of Uttar Pradesh Mahila Congress.[4]"
"Chandrawati (born 1928) is an Indian politician. She was Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry from 19 February 1990 to 18 December 1990.[1] Earlier, she was a minister (1964–66 and 1972–74) in the Government of Haryana.[2] In 1977, she was elected to the 6th Lok Sabha as MP for the Bhiwani constituency as a Janata Party candidate.[3]"
"She was born in 1928 in Dalawas village, Bhiwani district, Haryana. Her father, Hazarilal Sheoran, served in the Indian Army."
"During 1964-66 and 1972-74 she was Minister of State in Haryana, 1977-79 President of Janata Party and 1982-85 Leader of the Opposition, and later a senior Indian National Congress leader in Haryana."
She worked as Lt. Governor of Puducherry from 19 February 1990 to 13 December l990.
Anushka Shetty at the Internet Movie Database
"Anushka Shetty Anushka Shetty at the trailer launch of Baahubali: The Beginning (2015) in Mumbai, India. Born Sweety Shetty[1] (1981-11-07) 7 November 1981[2] Mangalore, Karnataka, India Residence Hyderabad, Telangana, India[3] Education BCA Occupation Actress, model, former yoga teacher Years active 2005–present Height 1.75 m (5 ft 9 in)[4] Awards Kalaimamani, Nandi Award"
"Sweety Shetty (born 7 November 1981), better known by her stage name Anushka Shetty, is an Indian actress and model who works predominantly in Telugu and Tamil films."
Politics
"Margaret Alva 23rd Governor of Gujarat In office 7 July 2014 – 5 August 2014 Preceded by Kamla Beniwal Succeeded by Om Prakash Kohli 29th Governor of Rajasthan In office 12 May 2012 – 5 August 2014 Preceded by Shivraj Patil Succeeded by Ram Naik (Additional Charge) 17th Governor of Goa In office 12 July 2014 – 7 August 2014 Preceded by Bharat Vir Wanchoo Succeeded by Om Prakash Kohli 4th Governor of Uttarakhand In office 06 August 2009 – 14 May 2012 Preceded by Banwari Lal Joshi Succeeded by Aziz Qureshi Personal details Born (1942-04-14) 14 April 1942 Mangalore, Madras Presidency, British India Nationality Indian Children 3 son(s) and 1 daughter Alma mater Mt. Carmel College and Government Law College, Bangalore Profession Lawyer"
"Margaret Alva (née Margaret Nazareth, born 14 April 1942) was the governor of the Indian state of Rajasthan until the end of her tenure in August 2014; she had previously been governor of Uttarakhand. She took over in Rajasthan from the Punjab governor, Shivraj Patil, who had been holding an additional charge of that state. Before being appointed governor, she was a senior figure in the Indian National Congress and was Joint Secretary of the All India Congress Committee."
"Margaret Alva was born Margaret Nazareth on 14 April 1942[1] in a Christian family at Mangalore, Karnataka. She obtained a BA degree from Mount Carmel College, Bangalore and a law degree from Government Law College in the same city.[2] She was a keen and appreciated debater during her time at college and had some involvement in students' movements.[3]"
"Alva combined her work as an advocate with involvement in welfare organisations, eventually becoming president of the Young Women's Christian Association. One of her early involvements was with the Karuna non-governmental organisation, which she founded and which was focused on issues relating to women and children.[2][4]"
"She married Niranjan Alva on 24 May 1964, with whom she has one daughter and three sons, including Niret Alva.[5] The couple had met as students at Government Law College[3] and her husband now operates a successful export business, which has given her financial security that has been beneficial to her later career.[2]"
"Alva's decision to enter politics in 1969 was strongly influenced by her husband and father-in-law, Joachim Alva, the latter and his wife, Violet Alva, being Members of Parliament representing the Indian National Congress. She has acknowledged this encouragement, saying that ""I never had to face any family constraints on my political activities"" and she has also said that the death of Violet in 1969 provided the impetus. She aligned herself with the Congress (Indira) faction led by Indira Gandhi and worked for its state unit in Karnataka.[2][3] She served as Joint Secretary of the All India Congress Committee between 1975 and 1977 and as General Secretary of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee between 1978 and 1980,[1]"
"In April 1974, Alva had been elected to the Raiya Sabha as a representative of Congress. She served a six-year term and was then re-elected for a further three six-year terms, in 1980, 1986 and 1992. During her time in the Rajya Sabha, she was its vice-chairman (1983–85) and also served terms as Union Minister of State in the ministries for Parliamentary Affairs (1984–85) and for Youth and Sports and Women and Child Development, an arm of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. She also served on various House committees, which garnered her a considerable degree of procedural expertise,[2] and was briefly Minister for Science and Technology.[4]"
"In her HRD role, between 1985 and 1989,[6] Alva oversaw the Rajiv Gandhi-led government's 28-point plan intended to improve the rights and involvement of women and children. In addition, she made proposals for various development corporations for women, only some of which materialised, and also campaigned for a greater prominence of women in government and in her party's official posts. Her 1989 proposal that 33 per cent of seats in panchayat raj (local government) elections should be reserved for women became law in 1993 and, according to Laura Jenkins, ""marked a further shift from the former abhorrence of reservations as a nationally divisive policy"". She continued her efforts to improve the lot of women during her period as Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions and Parliamentary Affairs (1991 and 1993-96[6]), where she tried to increase the number of female officeholders in various ministries and government organisations, such as the Union Public Service Commission and the judiciary.[2][7]"
"Alva has also been involved with women's issues and related matters such as population growth on the international stage, notably through various United Nations bodies and in writings.[2][8]"
"Alva was elected to the 13th Lok Sabha as a Member of Parliament in 1999, serving a five-year term.[6] She lost a subsequent re-election attempt in the Uttara Kannada constituency.[9] Between 2004 and 2009, she served as General Secretary of the All India Congress Committee and was an advisor to the Bureau of Parliamentary Studies & Training, a government body that works with newly elected parliamentary representatives at both national and state level.[4]"
"Radha Bharadwaj Born India Occupation Film director, film producer, screenwriter Years active 1991–present Website www.closetland.com"
"Radha Bharadwaj is an Indian filmmaker, film producer and screenwriter. She moved to the United States in her late teens to study film. Bharadwaj's screenwriting and directing feature debut is Closet Land. The critically acclaimed surreal psychological drama was released by Universal Pictures in 1991, making Radha Bharadwaj the first director of Indian descent to have a film released by a major Hollywood studio. Closet Land stars Alan Rickman and Madeleine Stowe. Ron Howard and Brian Grazer produced the feature. The screenplay for Closet Land won the Nicholl Screenwriting Fellowship sponsored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, among others.[1]"
"Bharadwaj's second feature is the 1998 Victorian gothic mystery, Basil. The period thriller, set in the United Kingdom, stars Derek Jacobi, Christian Slater, Jared Leto and Claire Forlani. The director's cut for Basil was twice selected to be the closing night film for the Special Presentation series at the Toronto International Film Festival, and chosen for a prime slot at the Los Angeles Film Festival.[1] The film was also acclaimed at the American Film Market.[2] Bharadwaj is currently working on new projects.[1]"
Official website Radha Bharadwaj at the Internet Movie Database Radha Bharadwaj at AllMovie
Radha Bharadwaj
See also
Political career
"Ram Dulari Sinha Ram Dulari Sinha Personal details Born (1922-12-08)8 December 1922 Gopalganj, Bihar Died 31 August 1994 New Delhi Nationality Indian Political party Indian National Congress Spouse(s) Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha Children Madhurendra Kumar Singh Residence Patna Religion Hindu"
Ram Dulari Sinha (1922–1994) was an Indian parliamentarian and a Union Minister. She was elected Vice Chairman of International Labour Organisation and also the first woman in Bihar to have master's degrees and she was also the first woman from Bihar to be appointed as Governor and was appointed as the Governor of Kerala from 23 February 1988 to 12 February 1990.[1]
"1952,Member of first Bihar Assembly 1962, Member of Parliament from Patna Lok Sabha Constituency 1969, Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly 1971-1977, State Cabinet Minister, Government of Bihar (held the portfolios of Labour and Employment, Tourism, Sugar Cane, Social Welfare and Parliamentary Affairs) 1980, Member of Parliament from Sheohar (Lok Sabha constituency) 1980-1984, Union Minister of State (held the portfolios of Information and Broadcasting, Labour and Rehabilitation, Industry, Steel and Mines, Commerce and Home Affairs) 1984, Member of Parliament from Sheohar constituency 1984-1988, Union Minister for Home Affairs 1988-1990, Governor of Kerala"
Rajani Rai is a former Lieutenant Governor of Pondicherry. She was governor from April 1998 to July 2002. She is from Nagpur and is an academic who belongs to a high profile traditional jaiswal family.
Rajani Rai
TV shows
"Nupur Asthana Born Uttar Pradesh, India Occupation Director, writer Years active 1998–present Known for Mujhse Fraaandship Karoge Hip Hip Hurray"
Nupur Asthana is an Indian film director and writer known for her work in Hindi cinema and television. She made her debut on Indian television with the 1998 TV series Hip Hip Hurray. Her film debut was the 2011 youth film Mujhse Fraaandship Karoge[1] produced by the Y-Films banner - the youth arm of Yashraj Films.
"Asthana grew up in Kolkata and Hyderabad. She studied English Literature at Lady Shri Ram College for Women (LSR), Delhi University. She was actively involved in amateur theatre and headed the dramatics society in her college. She did her post graduation in Social Communications Media from Sophia Polytechnic, Mumbai."
"Having joined film maker Ketan Mehta as an intern on Oh Darling Yeh Hai India, she was Chief Assistant director on Aar Ya Paar where she was also the voice of Kamal Sidhu.[2]"
She wrote and directed the primetime TV series Hip Hip Hurray on Zee Tv.
Bewakoofiyaan was produced by Yashraj Films opened on 14 March 2014 to mixed reviews and an average box office.[9][10]
Early life and education
Career
Activism
"Smita Bharti Smita Bharti in Delhi Born (1964-08-02) 2 August 1964 Bhilai, Chhattisgarh India Nationality Indian Occupation Social activist, theatre director Years active 1998–present Organization Sakshi"
"Smita Bharti is an Indian social activist, writer and director. She has worked on over 20 plays with communities spanning social, class and age strata. Through research, training, workshops, performances, campaigns and publications, she works extensively and intensively with women and adolescents in difficult and challenging circumstances, in prisons with victims under trial, with survivors in situations of domestic violence, sexual abuse and incest, physically and mentally challenged individuals. She also works with the policy and decision makers who have the potential of making systemic change in the country.[1]"
"Bharti was born in Bhilai, Chhattisgarh in 1964 to Nirmal and Agya Ram Kshetrapal. She did her schooling at Auckland School Shimla and moved to Delhi in 1982 where she received her bachelor's degree in Literature and Psychology from University of Delhi in 1985. She received her Master of Arts degree in Literature from the Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu in 1987. Bharti's life took a turn when she realised that the domestic violence she had suffered after her marriage wasn't her identity, that she had to transcend the barriers and scars to go beyond the personal. In 1995, she embarked on a journey towards a better life as a single parent of two.[2]"
"Since 2004, Smita has directed over 20 plays, [3]worked on films, video installations, interactive exhibitions and audio books [4] She has been a programme consultant to Sanskriti Museums and The Asian Heritage Foundation."
"In 1993, Bharti started working for Sakshi an NGO co-founded by Naina Kapur and Jasjit Purewal where she worked with women who had been through domestic violence and sexual abuse.[12] She began working on altering systemic responses to inequality through creative interventions that focus on behavioural change. She officially joined Sakshi in 2004 and went on to head the organisation from 2007 till 2015. During this time, she has spearheaded several social campaigns.[13]"
"In 2013, Smita won the Laadli National Media Award for her play. Following which in 2016, she received the Karmaveer Puraskaar [17] for social change and the Woman of the Elements Chakra.[18]"
Career
"Urmila Singh Governor of Himachal Pradesh In office 25 January 2010 – 24 January 2015 Preceded by Prabha Rau Personal details Born (1946-08-06) 6 August 1946 Phingeshwar, Raipur, Chhattisgarh Nationality Indian Political party Indian National Congress Spouse(s) Virendra Bahadur Singh Religion Hinduism"
Urmila Singh (born 6 August 1946) was the Governor of the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. She was appointed governor on 25 January 2010.[1]
"Urmila Singh was born in Phingeshwar village in Raipur district, now located in Chhattisgarh state, into a landowning family of central India, which also produced freedom fighters and social reformers. Urmila's great-grandfather, Raja Natwar Singh (alias Lalla Shah) of Haridaypur, was a freedom fighter, who was executed by the British rulers. Some other family members were deported to serve sentences in the Andaman and Nicobar islands."
"Urmila Singh was married at a young age to Virendra Bahadur Singh, Raja of Seraipally princely state in Chhattisgarh. The couple became the parents of one daughter and two sons and Urmila Singh devoted herself to the nurture of her family. Virendra Bahadur Singh became a prominent Congress party political and a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly, elected from the areas that his family had previously ruled for several centuries. His mother, Rani Shyam Kumari Devi, was a Member of Parliament."
"After the sudden, early death of her husband, Urmila Singh stepped into the political arena to contest the assembly seat previously held by him. She was duly elected for several consecutive terms from the family borough to the Madhya Pradesh assembly and remained a member from 1985 to 2003. She served as a Minister of State for Dairy Development (1993–95) and as Cabinet Minister for Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare (1998–2003). She also served as President of the Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee, a party forum, between 1996 and 1998.[2]"
"The new state of Chhattisgarh was carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2001, and Urmila's constituency now fell to the portion of the new state. Urmila Singh was therefore automatically a member of the first ever legislative assembly of Chhattisgarh between 2001 and 2003. The Congress party suffered a rout in both states in the 2003 assembly elections and Urmila Singh was one of the casualties. She lost the elections in 2008 also. In recognition of her services to the congress party, the congress-led central government appointed her governor of Himachal Pradesh in 2010. She took office on 25 January 2010."
Works
Edited
Anthologized
"Smita Agarwal (born 1958) is a poet and professor of English at the University of Allahabad, India. In 1999 she was a writer in residence at the University of Stirling in Scotland, and the University of Kent in England.[1]"
"Agarwal's doctoral studies were on American poet, novelist and short story writer, Sylvia Plath. Agarwal is an editor and translator for Plath Profiles, the Sylvia Plath online journal, Indiana University, US.[2]"
Agarwal is also a vocalist for All India Radio.[3]
"Wish-granting Words. New Delhi: Ravi Dayal Publisher, 2002 [4] Mofussil Notebook. Poems of Small Town India. E-book: Cooperjal Limited, UK, 2011[5][6] Mofussil Notebook. Poems of Small-Town India, Print. With an Introduction and New Poems, Calcutta: Brown Critique/Sampark, 2013.[7]"
"Marginalized: Indian Poetry in English, ed. Smita Agarwal, Amsterdam and New York: Rodopi, 2014.[8]"
Agarwal's poems have been included in anthologies such as:
Smita Agarwal
Publications
"Rashmi Bansal is an Indian non-fiction writer, entrepreneur and a youth expert.As of 2016, she is the author of seven books on entrepreneurship.[1][2] Her first book, Stay Hungry Stay Foolish, traced the progress of 25 MBA entrepreneurs and sold over 500,000 copies, a record for books published in India.[3]"
"Bansal grew up at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in South Mumbai where her father was an astrophysicist. After attending St Joseph's High School in Colaba, she studied at Sophia College for Women before earning an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad.[2]"
"On graduating from IIM, she first worked as a brand manager for the Times of India. After developing a youth page for The Independent, she went on to found JAM (Just Another Magazine), a youth magazine in collaboration with her husband Yatin Bansal.[4][5]"
"She was inspired to write Stay Hungry Stay Foolish (2008) by Rakesh Basant, a professor at IIM Ahmedabad who suggested she should cover the experiences of 25 entrepreneurs from the school. It turned out to be so successful that 100,000 copies were sold in the first 10 months, eventually recording sales of over 350,000. Her next book, Connect the Dots (2010), traced the progress of entrepreneurs without the MBA qualification. It also proved to be a best seller. Her I Have a Dream (2011) focused on social entrepreneurs, introducing an interesting mix of English and Hindi, popularly known as Hinglish, in an attempt to add a more realistic account of her personalities.[2][4]"
"In a interview with Heather Timmons of the New York Times, Bansal explained she decided to use Hinglish as it provides a more direct representation of people's voices and makes them more real.[4] More recently, Bansal has written another four best-sellers on entrepreneurs: Poor Little Rich Slum, Follow Every Rainbow, Take Me Home and Arise Awake. All are concerned with entrepreneurship with advice on how to succeed. She frequently illustrates her ideas with accounts of those who have risen to unexpected heights.[2]"
English
Translations
Bibliography
"Mridula Garg Born (1938-10-25)25 October 1938 Kolkata, West Bengal, India"
"Mridula Garg (born 1938) is an Indian writer who writes in Hindi and English languages.[1][2] She has published 30 books in Hindi – novels, short story collections, plays and collections of essay – of which she has rendered three into English. She is a recipient of the prestigious Sahitya Akademi Award."
"Mridula Garg (b. 1938) is one of the most widely read Hindi writers today. She has published 27 books in Hindi – novels, short story collections, plays and collections of essay – of which she has rendered three into English. She took her Masters in Economics in 1960 and taught economics in Delhi University for three years."
"Her style of writing is unconventional, in the face and gripping. Her novels have won critical and popular acclaim for the audacity of their themes and the lyricism of their style. Her novels and stories have been translated into a number of Indian and foreign languages like German, Czech, Japanese and English."
"She has been a columnist, writing on environment, women issues, child servitude and literature. She wrote a fortnightly column, Parivar in Ravivar magazine from Kolkata for 5 years between 1985-1990 and another column Kataksh (Satire) in India Today (Hindi) for 7 years, between 2003 and 2010."
Awards and recognition
Early life and career
Bibliography
"Nalini Bala Devi (23 March 1898– 24 December 1977) was a noted Indian writer and poet of Assamese literature,[1] known for nationalistic as well as mystical poetry.[2] She was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 1957 for her contribution to literature, and 1968 she won the Sahitya Akademi Award given by Sahitya Akademi (India's National Academy of Letters) for her poetry collection Alakananda."
"She was born in Guwahati in 1898, Assam. Her father, Karmaveer Nabin Chandra Bordoloi (1875–1936), was a famous Assamese Indian freedom movement activist and writer. She wrote her first poem, Pita at age 10, and was married at age 12, but tragedy also struck early, when her husband, Jeeveshwar Changkakoti, died when she was only 19. She also lost two of her sons early in her life. These tragic incidents in life however could not break her down and she started writing poems, with emotion, tragedy, patriotism and devotion as central themes, which are still acclaimed in Assamese literature.[3][4]"
"Her first book of poems Sandhiyar Sur (Evening Melody),[5] published in 1928, was later adopted by Calcutta University and Guwahati University as a textbook in 1946 and 1951 respectively."
"Her other works include Alakananda, Sopunar Sur (Melody of Dreams),Porosh Moni,Yuga Devata (Hero of the Age),Shesh Puja(The last worship), Parijator Abhishek, Prahlad, Meghdut, Suravi,Rooprekha, Shantipath (Essay anthology), and Sheshor Sur (The last Melody).[4][5]"
She was awarded with Sahitya Akademi Award for her poetry anthology Alakananda in 1968[7] and conferred Padma Shri in 1957 by the Government of India.[8]
"She died on 24 December 1977, but is remembered in Assamese literature by the last four lines of her famous poem NaatGhar (The theatre)"
Education
"Maitreyi Devi Born (1914-09-01)September 1, 1914 Chittagong Chattagram, Bangladesh Died January 29, 1989(1989-01-29) (aged 74) Occupation Poet, Novelist Spouse(s) Dr. M.M. Sen Parent(s) Surendranath Dasgupta (Father) Himani Madhuri Rai (Mother)"
"Maitreyi Devi (or Maitreyī Devī) (September 1, 1914 – January 29, 1989) was a Bengali-born Indian poet and novelist."
"Devi was born in 1914, she was the daughter of philosopher Surendranath Dasgupta and protegée of poet Rabindranath Tagore. She was married to quinologist dr. M.M. Sen.[1] She was the founder of the Council for the Promotion of Communal Harmony in 1964, and vice-president of the All-India Women’s Coordinating Council. Her first book of verse appeared when she was sixteen, with a preface by Rabindranath Tagore. She wrote Rabindranath--the man behind his poetry.[2] She was the basis for the main character in Romanian writer Mircea Eliade's 1933 novel Bengal Nights. In her Na Hanyate (English title, It Does Not Die: A Romance) novel, written as a response to Bengal Nights, Maitreyi Devi describes the romance and the cultural tensions resulted from it. Given the cultural constraints, she denies claims of a sexual affair between her and Eliade during the latter's sojourn in British India.[3][4]"
"In 1938 and 1939 she invited Rabindranath Tagore to stay in her and her husband's house in Mungpoo near Kalimpong, which later became the Rabindra Museum.[5]"
"She graduated from the Jogamaya Devi College, an affiliated undergraduate women's college of the historic University of Calcutta, in Kolkata.[6]"
She received Sahitya Akademi Award in the year 1976 for her novel Na Hanyate.
Achievements
"Maneesha, Kukkapalli Personal information Country  India Born (1995-04-29) 29 April 1995[1] India Handedness Right Women's & mixed doubles Highest ranking 82 (WD) 27 Oct 2016 72 (XD) 8 Dec 2016 BWF profile"
"Kukkapalli Maneesha (born 29 April 1995) is an Indian badminton player who currently plays doubles and mixed doubles.[2] She partners Sanyogita Ghorpade for women's doubles events and previously partnered with J. Meghana, P. V. Sindhu.[3] For mixed doubles events she partners with Satwiksairaj Rankireddy, and previously, Manu Attri and K. Nandagopal.[4]"
"The BWF Grand Prix has two level such as Grand Prix and Grand Prix Gold. It is a series of badminton tournaments, sanctioned by Badminton World Federation (BWF) since 2007."
Mixed Doubles
Women's Doubles
"Year Tournament Partner Opponent Score Result 2016 Bangladesh International Satwiksairaj Rankireddy Viriyangkura Tanupat Thanyasuda Wongya 21-12, 21-12 01 ! Winner 2016 India International Series Satwiksairaj Rankireddy Low Hang Yee Cheah Yee See 5-11, 11-8, 12-10, 11-8 01 ! Winner 2016 Mauritius International Satwiksairaj Rankireddy Yogendran Khrishnan Prajakta Sawant 21-19, 11-21, 21-17 01 ! Winner 2015 Tata India International Satwiksairaj Rankireddy Arun Vishnu Aparna Balan 21–13, 21–16 01 ! Winner 2013 Maldives International K. Nandagopal Kim Dae-sung Oh Bo-kyung 21-16, 23-21 01 ! Winner"
Life and career
Poetry collections
"Sujata Bhatt (born 6 May 1956) is an Indian [Poet]], a native speaker of Gujarati."
"Sujata Bhatt was born in Ahmedabad, Gujarat and brought up in Pune until 1968, when she emigrated to United States with her family. She has an MFA from the University of Iowa, and for a time was writer-in-residence at the University of Victoria, Canada. She received the Commonwealth Poetry Prize (Asia) and the Alice Hunt Bartlett Award for her first collection Brunizem. [1] She received a Cholmondeley Award in 1991 and the Italian Tratti Poetry Prize in 2000. [1] Her translations from the German include Mickle Makes Muckle: poems, mini plays and short prose by Michael Augustin (Dedalus Press, 2007). Bhatt was a visiting fellow at Dickinson College, Pennsylvania and currently works as a freelance writer. She has translated Gujarati poetry into English for the Penguin Anthology of Contemporary Indian Women Poets. Combining Gujarati and English, Bhatt writes ""Indian-English rather than Anglo-Indian poetry.""[2] Her poems have appeared in various journals in the United Kingdom, Ireland, the United States, and Canada, and have been widely anthologised, as well as being broadcast on British, German, and Dutch radio. In 2013 she was made Visiting Professor of Creative Writing at Nottingham Trent University."
"Michael Schmidt (poet) observed that her ""free verse is fast-moving, urgent with narratives, softly spoken. Her cadence is natural, her diction undecorated.""[2] Bhatt has been recognized as a distinctive voice in contemporary poetry. She is, the New Statesman declared, ""one of the finest poets alive"".[3] Her poem 'A Different History' dealing with the issues of globalization and westernization, featured in the poetry anthology used for IGCSE English examinations, for examination in 2014."
"Bhatt now lives in Bremen, Germany with her husband, the German writer Michael Augustin, and daughter.[1] She is a Visiting Professor in Creative Writing at Nottingham Trent University."
Other historical novels
Fiction
Ursula Blanchard mysteries
Bridges Over Time series
Norman series
Valerie Anand (born 1937) is a British author of historical fiction.[1]
"Under the pen name Fiona Buckley[2][3] she writes the series of historical mysteries, set in the reign of Elizabeth I of England, featuring ""Ursula Blanchard"" (whose full name is Ursula Faldene Blanchard de la Roche Stannard). Under her own name she writes historical fiction based on the royalty of England and the Bridges over Time series which follows a family from the eleventh century through the twentieth century."
"She is also holding the copyrights to The Fallen Pinnacle, a 1997 novel about Atlantis written under the pseudonym Valerie M. Irwin."
British rule
Independent India
Timeline
Politics
Culture
Military
Education and economic development
Education
Workforce participation
Land and property rights
Crimes against women
Acid throwing
Child marriage
Domestic violence
Dowry
Female infanticide and sex-selective abortion
Honor killings
Accusations of witchcraft
Rape
Sexual harassment
Trafficking
Women's rights
Other concerns
Social opinions
Participation of women in social life
Health
Family planning
Women from lower castes
Sex ratios
Sanitation
Further reading
External links
Ancient India
Medieval period
Historical practices
"Women in India now participate fully in areas such as education, sports, politics, media, art and culture, service sectors, science and technology, etc.[7] Indira Gandhi, who served as Prime Minister of India for an aggregate period of fifteen years, is the world's longest serving woman Prime Minister.[41]"
"The Constitution of India guarantees to all Indian women equality (Article 14), no discrimination by the State (Article 15(1)), equality of opportunity (Article 16), and equal pay for equal work (Article 39(d)). In addition, it allows special provisions to be made by the State in favour of women and children (Article 15(3)), renounces practices derogatory to the dignity of women (Article 51(A) (e)), and also allows for provisions to be made by the State for securing just and humane conditions of work and for maternity relief. (Article 42).[42]"
"Feminist activism in India gained momentum in the late 1970s. One of the first national-level issues that brought women's groups together was the Mathura rape case. The acquittal of policemen accused of raping a young girl Mathura in a police station led to country-wide protests in 1979-1980. The protests, widely covered by the national media, forced the Government to amend the Evidence Act, the Criminal Procedure Code, and the Indian Penal Code; and created a new offence, custodial rape.[42] Female activists also united over issues such as female infanticide, gender bias, women's health, women's safety, and women's literacy."
"Since alcoholism is often associated with violence against women in India,[43] many women groups launched anti-liquor campaigns in Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and other states.[42] Many Indian Muslim women have questioned the fundamental leaders' interpretation of women's rights under the Shariat law and have criticised the triple talaq system.[14]"
"According to a report by Thomson Reuters, India is the ""fourth most dangerous country"" in the world for women,[46][47] India was also noted as the worst country for women among the G20 countries,[13] however, this report has faced criticism for its inaccuracy.[48] On 9 March 2010, one day after International Women's day, Rajya Sabha passed the Women's Reservation Bill requiring that 33% of seats in India's Parliament and state legislative bodies be reserved for women.[5]"
Sarla Thakral became the first Indian woman to fly an aircraft in 1936.
Indira Gandhi became the first female Prime Minister of India in 1966.
"India has one of the highest number of female politicians in the world. Women have held high offices in India including that of the President, Prime Minister, Speaker of the Lok Sabha and Leader of the Opposition. The Indian states Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh,[60] Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tripura have implemented 50% reservation for women in PRIs.[61][62] Majority of candidates in these Panchayats are women. Currently 100% of elected members in Kodassery Panchayat in Kerala are Women.[63] There are currently 5 female chief ministers in India."
Women in Bihar
"The Indian Armed Forces began recruiting women to non-medical positions in 1992.[67] The Indian Army began inducting women officers in 1992.[68] The Border Security Force (BSF) began recruiting female officers in 2013. On 25 March 2017, Tanushree Pareek became the first female combat officer commissioned by the BSF.[59]"
A female officer in the Indian Army briefing Russian soldiers during a joint exercise in 2015.
"On 24 October 2015, the Indian government announced that women could serve as fighter pilots in the Indian Air Force (IAF), having previously only been permitted to fly transport aircraft and helicopters. The decision means that women are now eligible for induction in any role in the IAF.[69] In 2016, India announced a decision to allow women to take up combat roles in all sections of its army and navy.[69]"
"According to 1992-93 figures, only 9.2% of the households in India were headed by females. However, approximately 35% of the households below the poverty line were found to be headed by females.[71]"
A woman working at an Aadhaar center in India.
"People in Delhi, India protesting after a young student was gang-raped in Delhi in December 2012."
"The status of women in India has been subject to many great changes over the past few millennia.[5] With a decline in their status from the ancient to medieval times,[6][7] to the promotion of equal rights by many reformers, the history of women in India has been eventful. In modern India, women have held high offices including that of the President, Prime Minister, Speaker of the Lok Sabha, Leader of the Opposition, Union Ministers, Chief Ministers and Governors."
"Women’s rights are secured under the Constitution of India — mainly, equality, dignity, and freedom from discrimination; further, India has various statutes governing the rights of women.[8][9]"
"As of 2011, the President of India, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha (Lower House of the parliament) were women. However, women in India continue to face numerous problems, including violent victimisation through rape, acid throwing, dowry killings, marital rape, and the forced prostitution of young girls.[10][11][12] In 2012, the Thomson Reuters Foundation ranked India as the worst G20 country in which to be a woman.[13]"
"""Amrapali greets Buddha"", ivory carving, National Museum of New Delhi"
"Women during the early Vedic period[14] enjoyed equal status with men in all aspects of life.[15] Works by ancient Indian grammarians such as Patanjali and Katyayana suggest that women were educated in the early Vedic period.[16][17] Rigvedic verses suggest that women married at a mature age and were probably free to select their own husbands in a practice called swayamvar or live-in relationship called Gandharva marriage.[18] Scriptures such as the Rig Veda and Upanishads mention several women sages and seers, notably Gargi and Maitreyi. On the other hand, the Rig Veda also mentions women lack discipline and intellect,[19] and have the heats of hyena's.[20] For the Shatapatha Brahmana, women, Shudra, dogs and crows are all untruth.[21][22]"
"In approximately 500 B.C., the status of women began to decline.[6][7] Although reform movements such as Jainism allowed women to be admitted to religious orders, by and large women in India faced confinement and restrictions.[14] The practice of child marriages is believed to have started around the sixth century.[24]"
"Several Dharmashastras mention the restricted role of women, such as the Manu Smriti: Her father guards her in her childhood; her husband guards her in her youth; and her sons guard her in her old age. A woman is not fit to act on her own.[25]"
"These were normative texts however, and descriptive statements do describe women participating independently and becoming vanaprastha (forest hermits) and saṃnyāsini (renouncers).[26]"
"Some kingdoms in ancient India had traditions such as nagarvadhu (""bride of the city""). Women competed to win the coveted title of nagarvadhu. Amrapali is the most famous example of a nagarvadhu."
Krishna at Goddess Radharani's feet.
"Indian women's position in society further deteriorated during the medieval period,[7][15] when child marriages and a ban on remarriage by widows became part of social life in some communities in India. The Muslim conquest in the Indian subcontinent brought purdah to Indian society. Among the Rajputs of Rajasthan, the Jauhar was practised. In some parts of India, some of Devadasis were sexually exploited. Polygamy was practised among Hindu Kshatriya rulers for some political reasons.[24] In many Muslim families, women were restricted to Zenana areas of the house."
"Few texts exist that specifically deal with the role of women[27] an important exception is the Stri Dharma Paddhati of Tryambakayajvan, an official at Thanjavur c. 1730. The text compiles strictures on women's behaviour dating back to the Apastamba sutra (c. 4th century BCE).[28] The opening verse goes:"
"In spite of these conditions, women often became prominent in the fields of politics, literature, education and religion.[7] Razia Sultana became the only woman monarch to have ever ruled Delhi. The Gond queen Durgavati ruled for fifteen years before losing her life in a battle with Mughal emperor Akbar's general Asaf Khan in 1564. Chand Bibi defended Ahmednagar against the powerful Mughal forces of Akbar in the 1590s. Jehangir's wife Nur Jehan effectively wielded imperial power, and was recognised as the real power behind the Mughal throne. The Mughal princesses Jahanara and Zebunnissa were well-known poets, and also influenced the ruling powers. Shivaji's mother, Jijabai, was queen regent because of her ability as a warrior and an administrator. Tarabai was another female Maratha ruler. In South India, many women administered villages, towns, and divisions, and ushered in new social and religious institutions.[24]"
Women in India
"The Bhakti movements tried to restore women's status and questioned certain forms of oppression.[14] Mirabai, a female saint-poet, was one of the most important Bhakti movement figures. Other female saint-poets from this period included Akka Mahadevi, Rami Janabai and Lal Ded. Bhakti sects within Hinduism such as the Mahanubhav, Varkari and many others were principle movements within the Hindu fold openly advocating social justice and equality between men and women."
"Immediately following the Bhakti movements, Guru Nanak, the first Guru of Sikhs, preached equality between men and women. He advocated that women be allowed to lead religious assemblies; to lead congregational hymn singing called Kirtan or Bhajan; to become members of religious management committees; to lead armies on the battlefield; to have equality in marriage, and to have equality in Amrit (Baptism). Other Sikh Gurus also preached the same."
"Traditions such as Sati, Jauhar, and Devadasi among some communities have been banned and are largely defunct in modern India. However, some instances of these practices are still found in remote parts of India. The purdah is still practiced by Indian women in some communities. Child marriage remains common in rural areas, although it is illegal under current Indian law."
"Sati Sati is an old, almost completely defunct custom among some communities, in which the widow was immolated alive on her husband's funeral pyre. Although the act was supposed to be voluntary on the widow's part, its practice is forbidden by the Hindu scriptures in Kali yuga, the current age.[29] After the foreign invasions of Indian subcontinent, this practice started to mark its presence, as women were often raped or kidnapped by the foreign forces.[30] It was abolished by the British in 1829. There have been around forty reported cases of sati since independence.[31] In 1987, the Roop Kanwar case in Rajasthan led to The Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act.[32]"
"Jauhar Jauhar refers to the practice of voluntary immolation by wives and daughters of defeated warriors, in order to avoid capture and consequent molestation by the enemy. The practice was followed by the wives of defeated Rajput rulers, who are known to place a high premium on honour. Evidently such practice took place during the Islamic invasions of India.[33]"
Purdah Purdah is the practice among some Muslim communities requiring women to cover themselves in front of males for the purpose of modesty.
"Devadasis Devadasi is often misunderstood as religious practice. It was practised in southern India, in which women were ""married"" to a deity or temple. The ritual was well-established by the 10th century A.D.[34] By 1988, the practice was outlawed in the country.[35]"
"Sarojini Naidu, a poet and freedom fighter, was the first Indian woman to become President of the Indian National Congress and the first woman to become the governor of a state in India."
"London Mission Bengali Girls' School, Calcutta (LMS, 1869, p.12)[36]"
"During the British Raj, many reformers such as Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Jyotirao Phule fought for the betterment of women. Peary Charan Sarkar, a former student of Hindu College, Calcutta and a member of ""Young Bengal"", set up the first free school for girls in India in 1847 in Barasat, a suburb of Calcutta (later the school was named Kalikrishna Girls' High School)."
"While this might suggest that there was no positive British contribution during the Raj era, that is not entirely the case. Missionaries' wives such as Martha Mault née Mead and her daughter Eliza Caldwell née Mault are rightly remembered for pioneering the education and training of girls in south India. This practice was initially met with local resistance, as it flew in the face of tradition. Raja Rammohan Roy's efforts led to the abolition of Sati under Governor-General William Cavendish-Bentinck in 1829. Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar's crusade for improvement in the situation of widows led to the Widow Remarriage Act of 1856. Many women reformers such as Pandita Ramabai also helped the cause of women."
"Kittur Chennamma, queen of the princely state Kittur in Karnataka,[37] led an armed rebellion against the British in response to the Doctrine of lapse. Abbakka Rani, queen of coastal Karnataka, led the defence against invading European armies, notably the Portuguese in the 16th century. Rani Lakshmi Bai, the Queen of Jhansi, led the Indian Rebellion of 1857 against the British. She is now widely considered as a national hero. Begum Hazrat Mahal, the co-ruler of Awadh, was another ruler who led the revolt of 1857. She refused deals with the British and later retreated to Nepal. The Begums of Bhopal were also considered notable female rulers during this period. They did not observe purdah and were trained in martial arts."
"Chandramukhi Basu, Kadambini Ganguly and Anandi Gopal Joshi were some of the earliest Indian women to obtain a degree."
"In 1917, the first women's delegation met the Secretary of State to demand women's political rights, supported by the Indian National Congress. The All India Women's Education Conference was held in Pune in 1927, it became a major organisation in the movement for social change.[14][38] In 1929, the Child Marriage Restraint Act was passed, stipulating fourteen as the minimum age of marriage for a girl.[14][39] Though Mahatma Gandhi himself married at the age of thirteen, he later urged people to boycott child marriages and called upon young men to marry child widows.[40]"
"Women played an important part in India's independence struggle. Some famous freedom fighters include Bhikaji Cama, Dr. Annie Besant, Pritilata Waddedar, Vijayalakshmi Pandit, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Aruna Asaf Ali, Sucheta Kriplani and Kasturba Gandhi. Other notable names include Muthulakshmi Reddy and Durgabai Deshmukh. The Rani of Jhansi Regiment of Subhas Chandra Bose's Indian National Army consisted entirely of women, including Captain Lakshmi Sahgal. Sarojini Naidu, a poet and freedom fighter, was the first Indian woman to become President of the Indian National Congress and the first woman to become the governor of a state in India."
Television
Awards
Rima Kallingal at the Internet Movie Database
"Rima Kallingal Rima Kallingal at IFFK 2016 Born 19 January 1984 Thrissur, Kerala, India Occupation Actress, model, television anchor Years active 2009–present Spouse(s) Aashiq Abu (2013–present)"
"Rima Kallingal is an Indian model and film actress, predominantly appearing in Malayalam cinema."
"After being named First Runner-up in the Miss Kerala 2008 contest, she went on to pursue a career in acting. She made her film debut in 2009 through the film Ritu and later appeared in Neelathaamara (2009) and continues to work in Malayalam films. Her notable roles include roles in City of God (2011), Indian Rupee (2011), Nidra (2012), 22 Female Kottayam (2012), August Club (2013), and Rani Padmini (2015)."
"Born in1984 Thrissur, Rima Kallingal began practising dancing when she was three years old.[1] A dancer by profession, she has performed on national and international stages. She studied in Stanes Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School, Coonoor up to Fifth grade.[2] She completed her schooling from Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Thrissur, passing out in 2001. She holds a bachelor's degree in journalism from Christ University, Bangalore.[3][4] She is also skilled in Taekwondo (Korean martial art), Chao (Manipuri martial art) and Kalari.[1]"
"She was a semi-finalist of the Asianet reality show Vodafone Thakadhimi. She moved to Bangalore to pursue a modelling career and later participated in the Miss Kerala beauty pageant, in which be she became the first runner-up, losing to Shree Thulasi in a tie-breaker.[5]"
"She was spotted by director Lal Jose on a magazine cover, who cast her for a goat herder role in a Tamil film Mazhai Varappoguthu.[6] The project didn't materialise, but she was offered the lead female character of Varsha by director Shyamaprasad for Ritu, which eventually marked her acting debut.[5] She was 25 when she acted in the film.[3]"
"In 2012, she acted in the film 22 Female Kottayam which became a big success,[3] commercially as well as critically.[7][8] She received praises[9] and won many awards for her portrayal of Tessa.[10] She also won the Kerala State Government award for Best Actress. After 22 Female Kottayam she told that she had made some mistakes in her career and stated ""Yes, I have done a few films I never should have, but I am determined not to repeat those mistakes"".[7]"
"In 2013, Rima turned television anchor with the Mazhavil Manorama show ""Midukki"".[11][12] Following which the Kerala Film Chamber imposed a ban on her which was revoked later.[13]"
"Rima got married to director Aashiq Abu on 1 November 2013, in a simple ceremony held in Kakkand Registration office, Kochi in the presence of their close relatives and friends. Aashiq and Rima, dressed in a simple way, came with their family and friends to register their marriage. Aashiq and Rima's brothers signed the witness column of the marriage register and thus officially they became husband and wife. After the function, they had arranged a small feast for their well-wishers."
Rima Kallingal
As playwright
As Author and Illustrator
Early life
As Illustrator
Comic Strips
Career & Works
"Manjula Padmanabhan (born 1953) is a playwright, journalist, comic strip artist, and children's book author."
"Born in Delhi to a diplomat family in 1953, she went to boarding school in her teenage years. After college, her determination to make her own way in life led to works in publishing and media-related fields."
She won the Greek Onassis Award for her play Harvest. An award-winning film Deham was made by Govind Nihalani based on the play.
"She has written one more powerful play, Lights Out! (1984), Hidden Fires is a series of monologues. The Artist's Model (1995) and Sextet are her other works.(1996).[1]"
"She has also authored a collection of short stories, called Kleptomania. Her most recent book, published in 2008, is Escape.[1]"
"Apart from writing newspaper columns she created comic strips. She created Suki, an Indian comic character, which was serialized as a strip in the Sunday Observer.[2] Before 1997 (the year her play Harvest was staged) she was better known as cartoonist and had a daily cartoon strip in The Pioneer newspaper."
Awards and recognitions
Biography
Books and articles
"Pepita Seth Born Suffolk, UK Occupation Writer, photographer Awards Padma Shri"
"Pepita Seth is a British born writer and photographer, known for her accounts of the temple arts and rituals of Kerala and her photographs of the widely celebrated captive elephant, Guruvayur Keshavan. The Government of India honoured her, in 2012, with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award, for her services to the field of art and culture.[1][2]"
Guruvayoor Kesavan's Statue at Guruvayur.
Pepita Seth taking photograph
"Pepita Seth was born in Suffolk, East of England, UK, in a family of farmers. Pepita's maternal great garandfather was a soldier who served in the army in the British India. As was the custom during those days, Pepita, being a girl, did not have any formal education.[3] She, choosing a career in films, studied film editing and got opportunities to work under film directors like Ted Kotcheff and Stanley Donen. However, Pepita's life took a turn when she chanced upon the diary of her grandfather and decided to trace his trails with the British Army and document the movements and landed in Kolkata, in 1970.[3][4][5][6]"
"The journey from Kolkata ended in Guruvayur where she became fascinated by the temple arts and rituals of Kerala. For the next nine years, she visited Kerala several times and, in 1979, she found a home and settled in Guruvayur.[6][7] Though, at first, she was denied entry to the Guruvayur Temple, her persistence made the Guruvayur Devaswom Board to relent and she remains the only foreigner to be granted entry to the Temple.[4][8]"
Pepita was married to the Indian born British actor Roshan Seth but was estranged from her husband in the late 80s. The couple formally divorced in 2004.[9]
"Pepita Seth has extensively covered the rituals and temples of Kerala through her photographs. Her photographs of the elephant, Guruvayur Keshavan have been published in many magazines and journals including the New York Times and the Guardian.[6] It is generally considered that Pepita's photographs of the rituals and temple arts of Kerala have helped promote the image of Kerala as a tourist destination.[6]"
"Pepita Seth has authored two books on Kerala, with accounts and photographs."
"In recognition of her services to the fields of art and culture, the Government of India, in 2012, bestowed the civilian award of Padma Shri on her.[1][2]"
Pepita Seth
Career
See also
Awards
Filmography
Dimple Kapadia Born Dimple Chunnibhai Kapadia (1957-06-08) 8 June 1957 Occupation Actress Years active 1973; 1984–present Spouse(s) Rajesh Khanna (1973–1982; separated) Children Twinkle Khanna Rinke Khanna Relatives Akshay Kumar (Son-in-law)
"Dimple Kapadia (born 8 June 1957)[1] is an Indian film actress. She was launched by Raj Kapoor at age 16, playing the title role in his teen romance Bobby (1973). In that same year she married Indian actor Rajesh Khanna and retired from acting. Kapadia returned to the film industry in 1984, following her separation from Khanna. One of her films of that period was the drama Saagar (1985). Both Bobby and Saagar won her the Filmfare Award for Best Actress.[2] She went on to establish herself as one of the leading actresses of Hindi cinema in the 1980s.[3]"
See also
References
"Nityanand Kanungo Born (1900-05-04)4 May 1900 Cuttack, India Died 2 August 1988(1988-08-02) (aged 88) Nationality Indian Occupation Politician"
Nityanand Kanungo was an Indian politician from Odisha.
"Nityanand Kanungo was born in Cuttack on 4 May, 1900 and was educated at Ravenshaw College and University College (Calcutta). He was a member of the Indian National Congress and served as a member of the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 1937 to 1939 and again from 1946 to 1952.[1]"
Cast
Music
Awards and Nominations
Plot
"Koshish Poster Directed by Gulzar Produced by Romu N.Sippy Raj N.Sippy Written by Gulzar Starring Sanjeev Kumar Jaya Bhaduri Music by Madan Mohan Cinematography K. Vaikunth Edited by Waman B. Bhosle Gurudutt Shirali Release date December 1, 1972 Running time 125 min Country India Language Hindi"
"Koshish (Hindi: कोशिश, translation Effort) is a 1972 Hindi movie starring Sanjeev Kumar and Jaya Bhaduri, and directed by Gulzar."
"Koshish is considered a landmark movie in the history of Indian cinema. It stars Sanjeev Kumar and Jaya Bhaduri. The movie depicts a deaf and mute couple and their conflicts, pain and struggle to carve out a niche for themselves in a desensitized society. The film was remade in Tamil as Uyarndhavargal in 1977 with Kamal Haasan and Sujatha."
"The movie is a lesson on how to live life, taking up the lives of Hari (Sanjeev Kumar) and Aarthi (Jaya Bhaduri) who are deaf and mute. They meet, fall in love, get married, have a child who they bring up to be well educated and who gets married to a girl similar to his parents. All they have to help them is their hope, confidence and some kindness in the society along with Uncle Narayan who is blind. Tragedy strikes their lives as well when they lose their first child thanks to Kanu's greed. But they never give up hope on life and not in one instance during the entire movie do they think about ending it. They live life, fight it and succeed in it at a bigger scale than any normal person."
Sanjeev Kumar as Hari Charan Mathur Jaya Bhaduri as Aarti Mathur Om Shivpuri as Uncle Narayan Seema Deo as Teacher Asrani as Kanu (Aarti's Brother) Dina Pathak as Durga (Aarti's Mother)
"No. Title Singer(s) Length 1. ""Soja Baba Mere"" Mohammad Rafi   2. ""Humse Hai Watan Hamara"" Sushma Shreshta  "
Koshish at the Internet Movie Database
Koshish
Early life and background
"Poorna Malavath (born 10 June 2000), is an Indian mountaineer from Nizamabad district, Telangana. On 25 May 2014, Poorna scaled the highest peak of Mount Everest and, aged 13 years and 11 months, became the youngest girl to have reached the summit of Everest. The youngest person to summit Mt. Everest is Jordan Romero, who reached the summit at age 13 years and 10 months. [1] She was accompanied by Sandhana Palli Anand Kumar from Khammam."
"Poorna was born at Pakala village, Nizamabad district of Telangana state of India on 10 June 2000. She belongs to a tribal family. Her parents (mother Lakshmi and father Devidas) are farm labourers. She joined Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society for her education. Her talent was spotted by the secretary of the Society Dr R S Praveen Kumar. She was shortlisted for Operation Everest along with a Dalit boy, Sadhanapalii Anand Kumar. In preparation for climbing Mount Everest she trekked to mountains of Ladakh and Darjeeling. [2][3]A movie based on her life story will be released in 2017 named Poorna: Courage Has No Limit directed by Rahul Bose. [4]"
"Bosra (Arabic: بصرى‎, translit. Buṣrā‎, also spelled Bostra, Busrana, Bozrah, Bozra and officially known Busra al-Sham (Arabic: بصرى الشام‎, translit. Buṣrā al-Shām‎, Turkish: Busra el-Şam)[1] is a town in southern Syria, administratively belonging to the Daraa District of the Daraa Governorate and geographically being part of the Hauran region."
"According to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Bosra had a population of 19,683 in the 2004 census. It is the administrative center of the nahiyah (""subdistrict"") of Bosra which consisted of nine localities with a collective population of 33,839 in 2004.[2] Bosra's inhabitants are predominantly Sunni Muslims, although the town has a small Shia Muslim community.[3]"
"Bosra has an ancient history and during the Roman era it was a prosperous provincial capital and Metropolitan Archbishopric, under the jurisdiction of Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Antioch and All the East. It continued to be administratively important during the Islamic era, but became gradually less prominent during the Ottoman era. It also became a Latin Catholic titular see and the episcopal see of a Melkite Catholic Archeparchy. Today, it is a major archaeological site and has been declared by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site."
"The settlement was first mentioned in the documents of Thutmose III and Akhenaten (14th century BC). Bosra was the first Nabatean city in the 2nd century BC. The Nabatean Kingdom was conquered by Cornelius Palma, a general of Trajan, in 106 AD."
Bosra
"International Phonetic Alphabet Type Alphabet, partially featural Languages Used for phonetic and phonemic transcription of any language Time period since 1888 Parent systems Romic alphabet Phonotypic alphabet International Phonetic Alphabet Direction Left-to-right ISO 15924 Latn, 215 Unicode alias Latin"
"The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is an alphabetic system of phonetic notation based primarily on the Latin alphabet. It was devised by the International Phonetic Association as a standardized representation of the sounds of spoken language.[1] The IPA is used by lexicographers, foreign language students and teachers, linguists, speech-language pathologists, singers, actors, constructed language creators, and translators.[2][3]"
QRpedia QRpedia statistics [change stem for other articles] Qrpedia project on GoogleCode QRpedia on Twitter QRpedia on the Outreach wiki
"QRpedia A QRpedia code which decodes as the URL http://en.qrwp.org/QRpedia, used widely as the logo Screenshot  The QRpedia website, showing a QR code, which decodes as the URL http://en.qrwp.org/QRpedia Available in Multilingual Created by Terence Eden Roger Bamkin Website qrpedia.org Commercial No Registration None Launched 9 April 2011 (2011-04-09) Current status Online Content license MIT License"
"QRpedia is a mobile Web based system which uses QR codes to deliver Wikipedia articles to users, in their preferred language.[1][2][3] QR codes can easily be generated to link directly to any Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), but the QRpedia system adds further functionality. It is owned and operated by a subsidiary of Wikimedia UK (WMUK)."
"QRpedia was conceived by Roger Bamkin, a Wikipedia volunteer, coded by Terence Eden, and unveiled in April 2011. It is currently in use at museums and other institutions in countries including Australia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Macedonia, Spain, India, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States. The project's source code is freely reusable under the MIT License."
Bibliography
Education
Professional career
"Subroto Bagchi Native name ସୁବ୍ରତ ବାଗଚି Born 31 May 1957 Residence Bangalore, India Nationality Indian Citizenship India Alma mater Utkal University Employer Mindtree Home town Patnagarh, Balangir, Odisha Title Independent Director, Mindtree Board member of Bagchi is a Member of the Governing Council of the Software Technology Parks of India. Spouse(s) Susmita Bagchi – Author Website Subroto Bagchi Blogs"
Subroto Bagchi (31 May 1957) is an Indian entrepreneur and business leader. He is the co-founder of Mindtree and a business author.
"Bagchi was born to Makhan Gopal Bagchi and Labonya Prova Bagchi in Patnagarh, Odisha, where his father was a small-time government servant. He grew up mostly in the tribal districts of Odisha, moving from place to place because of the nature of his father's job. He has narrated the story of his life in his book Go Kiss the World published by Penguin Portfolio."
"He studied Political Science at the Utkal University. In 1974, he underwent training with the Parachute Regiment of the Indian Army and successfully completed the 5 mandatory jumps to earn the ""Para Wings"". In 1975, he was adjudged the Best NCC Cadet of India at the Republic Day Parade in Delhi where he was awarded the Prime Minister's Cane Honor."
"He started his work life as a clerk in the Industries Department of the Government of Odisha in 1976 after giving up his post graduate studies. After a year of working there, he qualified to be a management trainee in DCM in 1977 where he worked for the ensuing 5 years. In 1981, he entered the computer industry and worked for a number of computer companies between 1981 and 1999 in various functions like sales, marketing and operations. His longest stint was at Wipro where he became the Chief Executive of Wipro's Global R&D before working for chairman Azim Premji as corporate Vice-President, Mission Quality. He left Wipro in 1998 to join Lucent Technologies. He left Lucent a year after to co-found Mindtree in 1999 along with 9 other co-founders. Mindtree is a $500 million, Global IT services company with approximately 16000+ people. It is listed at the National Stock Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange in India.[1]"
"Between 1999 and 2007, he was instrumental in articulating Mindtree's mission, vision and values. He led leadership development, marketing and knowledge management initiatives that differentiated the company from the beginning. Mindtree's distinctive physical locations reflect his thought leadership. He is also the face of the company's outreach beyond business. In 2007, he was part of the apex team that led Mindtree from an idea to IPO. Post-IPO, Bagchi took on the role of Gardener at Mindtree. In this new role, he focused full-time on the Top-100 leaders at Mindtree to expand their leadership capacity beyond the founding team. In 2010, he was appointed vice-chairman to the Board. On 1 April 2012, he assumed the office of chairman.He stepped down as the chairman in January 2016.[2]"
"Subroto is also on the Board of White Swan Foundation. White Swan Foundation for Mental Health is a not-for-profit organization that offers knowledge services in the area of mental health. The Foundation provide patients, caregivers and others with well-researched content that will help them make informed decisions on how to deal with mental health issues.[3]"
High-Performance Entrepreneur (2006)[4] Go Kiss the World: Life Lessons For The Young Professional (2008)[5] The High Performance Entrepreneur (2008) The Professional (2009) MBA at 16 (2012)[6] Trouble in Gangtok (2012) The Captainship: First-gen Entrepreneurs (2013) The Elephant Catchers (2013)[7][8] The Professional Companion (2013)[9] On Leadership and Innovation (2014)
Official website Official Mindtree page
Variations
"Appam Appam Alternative names Hoppers, Ãppa, kallappam, palappam Type Pancake or griddle cake Course Breakfast or dinner Main ingredients Rice batter Variations Egg hoppers Cookbook: Appam  Media: Appam"
"Appam is a type of pancake made with fermented rice batter and coconut milk. It is a common food in Kerala,[1][2][3][4][5] Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka.[6] It is eaten most frequently for breakfast or dinner."
"It is considered as a staple diet and a cultural synonym of the Nasranis (also known as Saint Thomas Christians or Syrian Christians) of Kerala.[2][3][4][7][8] According to Gil Marks, each of the three separate Indian Jewish communities - Cochin, Mumbai, Calcutta - counts in its culinary repertoire grain dishes called appam.[9]"
Video of making an appam
"Vir Sanghvi, an Indian journalist, quotes food historian K. T. Achaya and states that the appam is mentioned in the Tamil Perumpanuru.[5][10][11] K. T. Achaya in the last published book of his lifetime states that Appam was well established in ancient Tamil country (comprising most parts of present-day South India), as per references in the Perumpanuru.[11] Appam first emerged in the southern tip of India, as per Gil Marks.[9]"
An appam being cooked in Kerala
Appam served with coconut milk in Tamil Nadu
Appam
Career
Controversial comments
Personal life
Bibliography
Notes
External links
Early life and background
Gopalkrishna Gandhi Gandhi speaking at Chatham House in 2010 22nd Governor of West Bengal In office 14 December 2004 – 14 December 2009 Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee Preceded by Viren J. Shah Succeeded by Devanand Konwar Personal details Born Gopalkrishna Devdas Gandhi (1946-04-22) 22 April 1946 India Spouse(s) Tara Gandhi Relations Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (grandfather) Kasturbai Gandhi (grandmother) Children 2 (Daughters) Parents Devdas Gandhi (father) Lakshmi Gandhi (mother) Occupation Indian Administrative Service Religion Hinduism
"Gopalkrishna Devdas Gandhi (born April 22, 1946) is a retired IAS officer and diplomat, who was the 22nd Governor of West Bengal serving from 2004 to 2009.[1] As a former IAS officer and he served as Secretary to the President of India and as High Commissioner to South Africa and Sri Lanka, among other administrative and diplomatic posts.[2]"
"His paternal grandfather was Mahatma Gandhi and maternal grandfather was C. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji).[2] He is the son of Devadas Gandhi and Lakshmi Gandhi. Gopalkrishna Gandhi is the younger brother of Rajmohan Gandhi, and the late Ramchandra Gandhi, and Smt. Tara Bhattacharjee (Gandhi), all of whom are distinguished in their own right."
"He joined IAS as an Officer in 1968 and served in Tamil Nadu state till 1985. Thereafter, he remained Secretary to Vice-President of India (1985 - 1987), Joint Secretary to President of India (1987 - 1992)."
"In 1992 he became Minister (Culture) in High Commission of India, UK and Director, The Nehru Centre, London, UK. This was followed by various diplomatic and administrative positions for the rest of his career including High Commissioner of India to South Africa and Lesotho (1996), Secretary to President of India (1997-2000), High Commissioner of India in Sri Lanka (2000), and Ambassador of India to Norway, and Iceland (2002), before his retirement from IAS in 2003.[4]"
"On 14 December 2004, he was appointed Governor of West Bengal following the expiry of the term of office of incumbent Viren J. Shah. He was succeeded by Devanand Konwar (the serving governor of Tripura), who was given additional charge of West Bengal. For a few months in 2006 he also took on additional duties as the Governor of Bihar.[5]"
"He was the Chairman of Kalakshetra Foundation, Chennai from December 2011 to May 2014.[6] He was the chairman of governing body of Indian Institute of Advanced Study, and president of its society on March 5, 2012 and served until May 2014.[4][7]"
"Mr. Gandhi teaches at Ashoka University, where he is a Professor of History and Politics.[8]"
"While delivering the 15th D P Kohli Memorial Lecture for CBI on ""Eclipse at Noon: Shadows Over India's Conscience"" with nearly 3000 officers of the agency in the audience, Gandhi noted that ""[The CBI] is seen as the government's hatchet, rather than honesty's ally. It is often called DDT — meaning not the dichloro diphenyl trichloroethane, the colourless, tasteless, odourless insecticide it should be, but the department of dirty tricks.""[9]"
Gopalkrishna Gandhi and his wife Tara Gandhi have two daughters.
Hindi
English
""
"TensorFlow Developer(s) Google Brain Team[1] Initial release November 9, 2015 (2015-11-09) Stable release 1.2.0[2] / June 15, 2017 (2017-06-15) Repository github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow Written in Python, C++, CUDA Platform Linux, macOS, Windows, Android Type Machine learning library License Apache 2.0 open source license Website www.tensorflow.org"
TensorFlow
Gopal Ballav Pattanaik 32nd Chief Justice of India In office 8 November 2002 – 19 December 2002[1] Appointed by A. P. J. Abdul Kalam Preceded by Bhupinder Nath Kirpal Succeeded by V. N. Khare[2] Personal details Born (1937-12-19) 19 December 1937 Cuttack Nationality Indian Alma mater Allahabad University Ravenshaw College Madhusudan Law College
Gopal Ballav Pattanaik was the 32nd[3] Chief Justice of India.[4]
"He was born on 19 December 1937 in the city of Cuttack, now in Odisha, India. He is the eldest son of Rashbehari Pattnaik and Bidulata Dei."
"He studied at the Ravenshaw College in Cuttack and Allahabad University and earned his law degree from M. S. Law College, Utkal University in Odisha."
"In 1962, he enrolled as an advocate in the Orissa High Court, where he practiced in civil, criminal, constitutional and business cases. He also appeared before the Supreme Court of India.[5]"
"In 1971, he was appointed to the Standing Counsel for the state Government of Orissa. In 1974 he became an Additional Government Advocate and subsequently the Govt Advocate of the state. In 1983, he was elevated to the bench of the Orissa High Court as a permanent judge.[6] In 1995, he was appointed the Chief Justice of Patna High Court. Only four months later, he was appointed to the Supreme Court of India. He went on to occupy the highest judicial post in the country as the Chief Justice of India on 8 November 2002.[7]"
"When Pattanaik took over as the Chief Justice of India, it appeared that he would not be able to achieve much in the administration of the judiciary, in view of his short tenure .Yet, he began a momentous chapter in the history of Indian judiciary by putting into practice the 'in-house procedure' evolved in 1997 to deal with allegations of misconduct against members of the higher judiciary."
Layal Abboud on Facebook Layal Abboud on Instagram Layal Abboud on YouTube Layal Abboud on Twitter Layal Abboud on SoundCloud Layal Abboud on Myspace Layal Abboud on ReverbNation
"Layal Abboud (Arabic: ليال عبود‎‎, pronounced [laj'ja:l ʕab'bu:d]; born 15 May 1982) is a Lebanese pop singer, folk music entertainer, sound-lyric poet, concert dancer, fit model, Muslim humanitarian and businesswoman.[1][2][3]"
Layal Abboud
Champakesvara Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′48″N 85°51′28″E﻿ / ﻿20.24667°N 85.85778°E﻿ / 20.24667; 85.85778Coordinates: 20°14′48″N 85°51′28″E﻿ / ﻿20.24667°N 85.85778°E﻿ / 20.24667; 85.85778 Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneswar Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture) History and governance Date built 13th century A.D.
Champakesvara Siva Temple is located Ambika Sahi in the Old Town area of Bhubaneswar. It is 157 metres west of Parasuramesvara on the right side of the Kotitirthesvara lane leading to Bindu sagara. It is a laterite temple. Local people believe that the enshrined Siva lingam is patalaphuta and the precinct is the abode of nagas(champa naga) after whom the deity is named as Champakesvara. The local people also believe that the temple precinct which is a den for the snakes do not harm any body.
"The temple dates back to 13th century A.D. The temple has a lot of significance in the past as well as today. It was of significance during the Ganga period. Sivaratri, Jalasayi, Rudrabhiseka, Sankranti are observed in this temple. Thread ceremony, birth day and marriage engagements are also carried out here. The temple is inside a laterite compound wall, which is surrounded by residential buildings on the northern side, Visvanatha temple in the southern side, Kotitirthesvara tank in the eastern side and the lane in the northern and western sides."
"The temple has a vimana and a jagamohana measuring 11.05 metres in length and 6.00 metres in width. The temple is pancharatha. The vimana, jagamohana and antarala are 4.50 square metres, 6.00 square metres and 0.55 metres respectively. The vimana is rekha in order where as the jagamohana is apidha deul. It is a panchangabada temple consisting of pabhaga, tala jangha, bandhana, upara jangha and baranda, which measures 0.75 metres, 0.75 metres, 0.17 metres, 0.72 meters, and 0.82 metres respectively. The sanctum is 0.90 metres below the present ground level. Pabhaga has five base mouldings of khura, kumbha, pata, kani and basanta. The baranda has also five mouldings. The pabhaga of jagamohana measures 0.70 metres with four mouldings. The entire structure above pabhaga is a later renovation. The gandi of the main temple measures 5.81 metres above the baranda mouldings. The mastaka measures 2.00 metres with components like beki, amlaka, khapuri and kalasa. The temple precinct is surrounded by a compound wall made of laterite with an entrance in the northern side. The compound measures 30.50 metres in length, 15.80 meters in breadth and 1.35 metres in height."
"The raha niches of the western, northern and southern sides are identical in measurement measuring 0.85 metres in height, 0.47 metres in width and 0.34 metres in depth. All the niches are empty."
"The doorjambs are later addition, which are plain. There is no navagraha architrave. The pabhaga is devoid of sculptural embellishment. The jangha is separated by a single moulding bandhana. The jangha is decorated with simple pilaster designs. The baranda is also left plain. At the base of the gandi in the raha paga there are three miniature rekha deul and the central one is higher than the rest two. The gandi is plain except miniature rekha deul and bhumi amlas in the kanika paga. Four bhumi amlas are found in the kanika paga. The raha paga of the gandi on all the four sides have udyota simha."
"Laterite temple, which was originally a panchayatana precinct as evident from the ruins of shrines in the western corners of the precinct. In one of these subsidiary shrines, there is a four armed broken image of Kartika in standing position. The lower left arm is broken and the upper left arm rests over a cock, which is upheld by a diminutive woman. There is an ancient well in front of the temple, which measures 1.30 metres square with a depth of 5.25 metres."
List of Hindu temples in India Kotitirtha Tank
Champakesvara Siva Temple
See also
Raha niche and parsva devatas
Architectural features
Special features
Nagesvara Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°14′47″N 85°51′24″E﻿ / ﻿20.24639°N 85.85667°E﻿ / 20.24639; 85.85667Coordinates: 20°14′47″N 85°51′24″E﻿ / ﻿20.24639°N 85.85667°E﻿ / 20.24639; 85.85667 Country India State Orissa Locale Bhubaneswar Elevation 8 m (26 ft) Culture Sanctum lord Vishnu Architecture Architectural styles Kalingan Style (Kalinga Architecture)
"Nagesvara Temple is an abandoned Hindu temple located in the village of Bhubaneswar. It is situated on the western right bank of the Lingaraja West Canal at a distance of 10.35 metres (34.0 ft) west of Subarnesvara Siva Temple, located across the canal."
Nagesvara Temple is located in the midst of a residential/agricultural area within the village of Bhubaneswar. It stands facing east on a platform that is 5.6 metres (18 ft) wide by 5.0 metres (16.4 ft) deep by 0.4 metres (1.3 ft) high. The temple itself rises to a height of 8.15 metres (26.7 ft).
"The garbha griha of the temple is empty.Nevertheless, the sculptural embellishments on the outer wall of the temple suggest that the temple was originally dedicated to lord Siva."
Local residents believe the temple was built by the Kesharis.
"The temple today is in generally good condition, except for some painted surfaces that have deteriorated. The exterior shows signs of vegetation overgrowth."
"The temple was restored and renovated by the Orissa State Archaeology department, during which work the stones were marked in white paints, which largely distort and deface the architectural edifice."
List of temples in Bhubaneswar
Photos of the temple
"Nagesvara Temple, Bhubaneswar"
Preservation status
External links
See also
Description
"""Me too"" (or ""#metoo) became a two-word hashtag used on social media in 2017 to denounce sexual assault and harassment, in the wake of sexual misconduct allegations against Harvey Weinstein.[1][2][3] The phrase had been used more than 200,000 times by October 15,[4] and tweeted more than 500,000 times by October 16.[1] The hashtag has been used over 600,000 times on Facebook,[5] resulting in more than 6 million discussions about sexual abuse and harassment.[6] Alyssa Milano encouraged use of the word as part of an awareness campaign to show the scale and ubiquity of the problem,[7][8][9] and many notable individuals have contributed, including:"
Hashtag activism
"James Cameron Cameron in July 2016 Born James Francis Cameron (1954-08-16) August 16, 1954 Kapuskasing, Ontario, Canada Residence Malibu, California, U.S. Wairarapa, New Zealand Alma mater Fullerton College California State University, Fullerton Occupation Filmmaker, environmentalist, explorer, philanthropist Years active 1975–present Net worth US$1.79 billion (2016)[1] Spouse(s) Sharon Williams (m. 1978–84) Gale Anne Hurd (m. 1985; div. 1989) Kathryn Bigelow (m. 1989–91) Linda Hamilton (m. 1997; div. 1999) Suzy Amis (m. 2000) Children 4 Awards See below"
"James Francis[2] Cameron[3] (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian filmmaker, director, producer, screenwriter, inventor, engineer, philanthropist, and deep-sea explorer.[4][5] After working in special effects, he found major success after directing and writing the science fiction action film The Terminator (1984). He then became a popular Hollywood director and was hired to write and direct Aliens (1986); three years later he followed up with The Abyss (1989). He found further critical acclaim for his use of special effects in Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991). After his film True Lies (1994) Cameron took on his biggest film at the time, Titanic (1997), which earned him Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Film Editing."
"Chintamaniswar Siva Temple Location in Orissa Geography Coordinates 20°15′00″N 85°50′20″E﻿ / ﻿20.25000°N 85.83889°E﻿ / 20.25000; 85.83889Coordinates: 20°15′00″N 85°50′20″E﻿ / ﻿20.25000°N 85.83889°E﻿ / 20.25000; 85.83889 Country India State Orissa Location Bhubaneswar Culture Important festivals Sivaratri, Siva vivaha, jalasaya, rudrabhisekha Architecture Architectural styles Rekha deul style History and governance Date built 14th century A.D."
"Chintamaniswar Siva Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Siva located in Bhubaneswar, the capital of Orissa, India. It is situated at the end of the Chintamaniswar road branching from Cuttack - Puri road near the Old Station Bazar. The temple faces towards west and the enshrined deity is a Siva lingam with a yonipitha."
"The temple dates back to 14th century A.D. According to local legend the temple was built by the Kesharis (Somavamsis). Various religious sacraments like Sivaratri, Siva vivaha, jalasaya, rudrabhisekha are performed here. Marriage and thread ceremonies are held here."
"On plan, the temple has a square sanctum, the vimana is of rekha order. From bottom to the top the temple has a bada, gandi and mastaka. There are fivefold divisions the panchanga bada and at the base the pabhaga has a set of five mouldings i.e. khura, kumbha, pata, kani and basanta. Khura portion of the temple has partly been buried. Jangha is segmented into tala jangha and upara jangha by a set of three mouldings of the bandhana, baranda with seven mouldings. The gandi is devoid of any decoration and the mastaka as with Orissan temples has components like beki, amalaka, khapuri and kalasa."
Eastern niche enshrines a four armed Kartikeya image. His major left is in varadamudra and right hand holds a mace. His uplifted back left hand holds a cock and his right hand is held over the head of the peacock. Southern niche houses a four armed Ganesha image who is holding rosary in his major right hand and modaka patra in his left hand. His uplifted back right hand holds an ankusa while his left hand holds a broken tooth(tusk).The northern raha niche houses goddess Parvati.
"The tala jangha and the upara jangha of the bada are carved with a series of khakhara mundis and pidha mundis respectively. In the beki recess above the kanika paga there is a deula charini whereas above the raha paga at the center there are four armed divinities. The base of the doorjamb is carved with two khakhara mundis on either side. Temple is enclosed by a modern compound wall measuring 40.00 square m, 1.80 m in height with a thickness of 0.20 m. There is a four armed Ganesha in the right side of the doorjamb. The deity is holding a Parasu and rosary in his lower left and right arms and modakapatra in upper left and a broken tooth(tusk) in lower left arm."
It is a temple tank located within the precinct of temple. According to local people the tank was dug by the Kesharis. Festivals like Kartika purnima and Sravana purnima are observed here. The tank is rectangular in shape made of laterite measuring 22.40 m in length and 11.20 m in breadth with a depth of 3.00 m. The tank is fed by a natural spring with waters from underground. As a result of which water level is always constant throughout the year. There is an outlet in the eastern wall to discharge the excess water.
List of temples in Bhubaneswar
"K.C. Panigrahi, Archaeological Remains at Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, 1961. P. 16. Lesser Known Monuments of Bhubaneswar by Dr. Sadasiba Pradhan (ISBN 81-7375-164-1)"
External links
See also
Architectural features
The Temple
Chintamaniswar Tank
Reference notes
References
Decorative features
External links
Notes
Nomenclature and etymology
Hagiographical accounts
Identification with Minapa/Matsyendranath
Major literary works
Poetry of Luipa rendered into English
Luipa Born Kamrup Nationality Indian Other names Lauhityapada Occupation Litterateur Known for Charyapada
"Luipa or Luipada (Assamese: লুইপা, Bengali: লুইপা, Odia: ଲୁଇପା, c. 10th century) was a mahasiddha or siddhacharya from East India. He was a poet and writer of a number of Buddhist texts."
"Although the Tibetan translation for Lui is ""the fish-gut eater"" (Wylie: nya lto zhabs ), the root of the word is probably Old Bengali lohita, a type of fish (the rohu) and the names like Luidhar, Luichandra and Luiya mentioned in the Dharmamangals of the late medieval period originated from the same root.[1]"
"Ayyappapanicker & Akademi (1997: p. 599) amplify the view of prior scholarship in that the nomenclature ""Luipa"" is related to the Brahmaputra River:"
"Several scholars, such as K. L. Barua and Dimbeswar Neog, hold the view that his poetic name is reminiscent of his earlier days spent on the bank of the Luit, i.e. the Brahmaputra. His vocabulary and diction are clearly old Assamese.""[2]"
"Luipa appears in The Legends of Eighty-four Siddhas (Wylie: grub thob brgyad bcu tsa bzhi'i lo rgyus ), a Tibetan namtar detailing the lives of Indian mahasiddhas. It was written by the Tibetan monk Mondup Sherab and was probably a translation of the Chaturashiti-Siddha-Pravritti, based on what was narrated to him by Abhayadattashri of Champaran (c. 12th century). In the Caturasiti-Siddha-Pravritti, Luipa is said to be the second son of a very rich king of Singhaladvipa, believed to be Sri Lanka. However, several other regions were also known as Singhaladvipa, and one of them was Oddiyana, which other sources mentioned as the place of birth of Luipa.[3]"
"Luipa's father chose him as his successor, but he left his kingdom to achieve bodhi, i.e. enlightenment. Luipa first headed for Ramesvaram and then went to Vajrasana, known today as Bodh Gaya, the place where Gautama Buddha achieved enlightenment. There Luipa received his first teaching from a dakini. Later, when he reached Saliputra, or Magadha, a Loka-Dakini advised him to get rid of the slightest pride of his royal blood to achieve enlightenment by leaving aside all prejudices regarding the purity of foods. Following her advice, Luipa consumed only the guts of the fishes thrown away by the fishermen on the Ganges for twelve years. This practice led to him being known as Lui, one who eats fish-guts."
"Luipa also appears in the Chaturashiti-Siiddha-Pravritti, where he meets the king of Magadha, Indrapala and his Brahmin minister. These two became his disciples and were known as Darikapa and Dengipa. Luipa initiated them into the mandala of Cakrasaṃvara."
"In Buton Rinchen Drub's History of Buddhism (Wylie: chos-'byung ), Luipa is mentioned as the son of King Lalitachandra of Oddiyana. When the prince met Śabara, a disciple of Saraha, he was immensely impressed by this great adept and begged him for instruction. He received initiation into the tantra of Cakrasaṃvara. The initial part of his penance was completed when he joined a circle of twenty-four Dakas and Dakinis in a ganachakra in a charnel ground which climaxed in consumption of the corpse of a sage. With a final blessing from his Guru he left Oddiyana and became a mendicant sage. The period ended when, feeling the need for sustained one-pointed meditation practice, he sat down to meditate beside a pile of fish-guts by the banks of the River Ganges in Bengal, where he remained till he had attained mahamudra-siddhi, the highest level of spiritual attainment in Vajrayana Buddhism."
"The Sakya school of Tibetan Buddhism records that Luipa's was a kayastha or scribe, at the court of Dharmapala, the emperor of Varendra in northern Bengal. While begging for alms at Dharmapala's palace Savaripa recognized the scribe Luipa as a suitable recipient for his Samvara lineage; his extraordinary talent was evident in the versified letters he wrote to the king's correspondents, a task requiring a pointed concentration.[3]"
"The account of Luipa found in the work of Taranatha, a scholar from the Jonang school of Tibetan Buddhism, differs significantly from that found in Buton's work. Here, Luipa was a scribe to the King of Oddiyana and was initiated into the Vajravārāhī mandala.[3]"
"The following poetic extract of Luipa is from his work, Kāā Tarubara, the first pada of the Charyapada (c. 9-10th century) and rendered into English by Mahendra Bora and cited in Ayyappapanicker & Akademi (1997: p. 599):"
"The body is a gentle tree with its branches five in number, Into the stuff of unsteady mind enters Time the wrecker. Get your mind steadied and enjoy the bliss never-waning, Lui counsels, know it from your teacher just by asking: Why all these modes of meditation one should toil and try, When going through joy and sorrow all must one day die? Ignoring this bond of deception, trust in sense-perception, Riding on the wings of pure void, make her your companion. Lui testifies, I have seen her clear in my meditation, Seated on twin mats doing inhalation and exhalation.[2]"
"Many modern scholars have attempted to identify Luipa with Matsyendranath, the adiguru and the founder of the Nath Sampradaya.[4] There are several similarities between them. Both of their names Lui and Mina mean fish. Both of them were associated with fisherman caste,[4] Sri Lanka and eastern India and both of them were originators of yogini-tantra lineages (Luipa Samvara and Minapa Yogini-kaula). While Luipa was considered as adisiddha, Matsyendranath was known as adiguru. But, if Luipa was born in the eighth century CE, he cannot be identified with Matsyendranath, who belonged to c. 9th - 10th century.[3]"
Luipa
"In the bStan-'gyur, he has been mentioned as the author of the texts, the Shribhagavad-Abhisamaya, the Vajrasattva Sadhana, the Tattvasvabhava-Dohakosha-Gitikia-Drishti-Nama, the Luhipada-Gitika, the Shrichakrasamvara-Abhisamaya-Tika and the Buddhodaya. He was also mentioned as the co-author of the Abhisamaya-Vibhanga along with the great scholar Atisha. The Padas 1 and 29 of the Charyageetikosha (or the Charyapada) are also ascribed to him.[6]"
A thangka of Luipa Another thangka of Luipa
"Laika (Russian: Лайка; c. 1954 – 3 November 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth. Laika, a stray dog from the streets of Moscow, was selected to be the occupant of the Soviet spacecraft Sputnik 2 that was launched into outer space on 3 November 1957."
Mughal Empire era destruction and rebuilding
Description
Ranjit Singh era reconstruction
Nomenclature
Construction
"Harmandir Sahib Golden Temple ਸ੍ਰੀ ਹਰਿਮੰਦਰ ਸਾਹਿਬ The Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) Show map of Punjab Show map of India Location within Punjab Alternative names Darbar Sahib Golden Temple of Amritsar(Harmandir Sahib) General information Town or city Amritsar Coordinates 31°37′12″N 74°52′37″E﻿ / ﻿31.62000°N 74.87694°E﻿ / 31.62000; 74.87694Coordinates: 31°37′12″N 74°52′37″E﻿ / ﻿31.62000°N 74.87694°E﻿ / 31.62000; 74.87694 Construction started December 1581[1] Completed 1589 (Temple), 1604 (with Adi Granth) [1] Website Sri Harmandir Sahib (Gurmukhi)"
"Sri Harmandir Sahib (lit. ""the abode of God""), also known as Golden Temple and the Darbar Sahib, is the holiest Gurdwara and the most important pilgrimage site of Sikhism.[2][3] It is located in the city of Amritsar, Punjab, India.[3]"
"The temple is built around a man-made pool (sarovar) that was completed by Guru Ram Das in 1577.[4][5] Guru Arjan – the fifth Guru of Sikhism, requested Sai Mian Mir – a Muslim Pir of Lahore to lay its foundation stone in 1589.[1] In 1604, Guru Arjan placed a copy of the Adi Granth in Harmandir Sahib, calling the site Ath Sath Tirath (lit. ""shrine of 68 pilgrimages"").[2][6] The temple was repeatedly rebuilt by the Sikhs after it became a target of persecution and was destroyed several times by the Muslim armies from Afghanistan and the Mughal Empire.[2][3][7] The army led by Ahmad Shah Abdali, for example, demolished it in 1757 and again in 1762, then filled the pool with garbage.[2][8] Maharaja Ranjit Singh after founding the Sikh Empire, rebuilt it in marble and copper in 1809, overlaid the sanctum with gold foil in 1830. This has led to the name the Golden Temple.[9][10][11]"
"The temple is spiritually the most significant shrine in Sikhism. It became a center of the Singh Sabha Movement between 1883 and 1920s. In the early 1980s, the temple became a center of conflict between the Indian government led by Indira Gandhi, some Sikh groups and a militant movement led by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale seeking to create a new nation named Khalistan. In 1984, Gandhi sent in the Indian Army as part of Operation Blue Star, leading to deaths of over 1,000 militants, soldiers and civilians, as well as causing much damage to the temple and the destruction of Akal Takht. The temple complex was rebuilt again after the 1984 damage.[3][12]"
"The Harmandir Sahib is an open house of worship for all men and women, from all walks of life and faith.[2] It has a square plan with four entrances, has a circumambulation path around the pool. The temple is a collection of buildings around the sanctum and the pool.[2] One of these is Akal Takht, the chief center of religious authority of Sikhism.[3] Additional buildings include a clock tower, the offices of Gurdwara Committee, a Museum and a langar – a free Sikh community run kitchen that serves a simple vegetarian meal to all visitors without discrimination.[3] Over 100,000 people visit the holy shrine daily for worship.[13] The temple complex has been nominated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and its application is pending on the tentative list of UNESCO.[14]"
"The Harmandir Sahib is also spelled as Harimandar, Harimandir or Harmandar Sahib.[2] It is also called the Darbar Sahib (Punjabi pronunciation: [dəɾbɑɾ sɑhɪb]) which means ""sacred audience"", as well as the Golden Temple for its gold foil covered sanctum center.[3] The word ""Harmandir"" is composed of two words, ""Hari"" which scholars variously translate either as ""God"" or ""Vishnu"",[2] and ""mandir"" which means temple or house.[15] The Sikh tradition has several Gurdwaras named ""Harmandir Sahib"" such as those in Kiratpur and Patna. Of these, the one in Amritsar is most revered.[16][17]"
"The Harimandir Sahib was repeatedly destroyed and rebuilt, the last time in 1830 with marble, copper and gold by Ranjit Singh."
"According to the Sikh historical records, the land that became Amritsar and houses the Harimandar Sahib was chosen by Guru Amar Das – the third Guru of the Sikh tradition. It was then called Guru Da Chakk, after he had asked his disciple Ram Das to find land to start a new town with a man made pool as its central point.[18][5][4] After Ram Das succeeded Guru Amar Das in 1574, and given the hostile opposition he faced from the sons of Guru Amar Das,[19] Guru Ram Das founded the town that came to be known as ""Ramdaspur"". He started by completing the pool with the help of Baba Buddha (not to be confused with the Buddha of Buddhism). Guru Ram Das built his new official centre and home next to it. He invited merchants and artisans from other parts of India to settle into the new town with him.[18]"
"Ramdaspur town expanded during the time of Guru Arjan financed by donations and constructed by voluntary work. The town grew to become the city of Amritsar, and the pool area grew into the Golden Temple complex.[20] The construction activity between 1574 and 1604 is described in Mahima Prakash Vartak, a semi-historical Sikh hagiography text likely composed in 1741, and the earliest known document dealing with the lives of all the ten Gurus.[21] Guru Arjan installed the scripture of Sikhism inside the new temple in 1604.[20] Continuing the efforts of Guru Ram Das, Guru Arjan established Amritsar as a primary Sikh pilgrimage destination. He wrote a voluminous amount of Sikh scripture including the popular Sukhmani Sahib.[22][23]"
Maharaja Ranjit Singh listening to Guru Granth Sahib near Harmandir Sahib
"Guru Ram Das acquired the land for the site. Two versions of stories exist on how he acquired this land. In one based on a Gazetteer record, the land was purchased with Sikh donations of 700 rupees from the owners of the village of Tung. In another version, Emperor Akbar is stated to have donated the land to the wife of Guru Ram Das.[18][24]"
"In 1581, Guru Arjan initiated the construction of the Gurdwara.[1] During the construction the pool was kept empty and dry. It took 8 years to complete the first version of the Harmandir Sahib. Guru Arjan planned a temple at a level lower than the city to emphasize humility and the need to efface one's ego before entering the premises to meet the Guru.[1] He also demanded that the temple compound be open on all sides to emphasize that it was open to all. The sanctum inside the pool where his Guru seat was had only one bridge to emphasize that the end goal was one, states Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair.[1] In 1589, the temple made with bricks was complete. Guru Arjan invited Sufi saint Mian Mir of Lahore to lay its foundation stone, signaling pluralism and that the Sikh tradition welcomed all.[1] After the inauguration, the pool was filled with water. On August 16, 1604, Guru Arjan completed expanding and compiling the first version of the Sikh scripture and placed a copy of the Adi Granth in the temple. He appointed Baba Buddha as the first Granthi.[25]"
"Guru Arjan called the site Ath Sath Tirath which means ""shrine of 68 pilgrimages"".[2][6][26] The temple complex marks the place of this announcement with a raised canopy on the parkarma (circumambulation marble path around the pool). The name, state W. Owen Cole and other scholars, reflects the belief that visiting this temple is equivalent to 68 Hindu pilgrimage sites in the Indian subcontinent, or that a Tirath to the Golden Temple has the efficacy of all 68 Tiraths combined.[27][28] The completion of the first version of the Golden Temple was a major milestone for Sikhism, states Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair, because it provided a central pilgrimage place and a rallying point for the Sikh community, set within a hub of trade and activity.[1]"
"The growing influence and success of Guru Arjan drew the attention of the Mughal Empire. Guru Arjan was arrested under the orders of the Mughal Emperor Jahangir and asked to convert to Islam.[29] He refused, was tortured and executed in 1606 CE.[29][30][31] Guru Arjan's son and successor Guru Hargobind left Amritsar and moved into the Shivalik Hills to avoid persecution and to save the Sikh panth.[32] For about a century after Guru Arjan martyrdom, state Louis E. Fenech and W. H. McLeod, the Golden Temple was not occupied by the actual Sikh Gurus and it remained in hostile sectarian hands.[2][32] In 18th century, Guru Gobind Singh and his newly founded Khalsa Sikhs came back and fought to liberate it.[32] The Golden Temple was viewed by the Mughal rulers and Afghan Sultans as the center of Sikh faith and it remained the main target of persecution.[2][7]"
The Golden Temple was the center of historic events in Sikh history:[2][33][9]
"In 1709, the governor of Lahore sent in his army to suppress and prevent the Sikhs from gathering for their festivals of Baisakhi and Divali. But the Sikhs defied by gathering in the Golden Temple. In 1716, Banda Singh and numerous Sikhs were arrested and executed. In 1737, the Mughal governor ordered the capture of the custodian of the Golden Temple named Mani Singh and executed him. He appointed Masse Khan as the police commissioner who then occupied the Temple and converted it into his entertainment center with dancing girls. He befouled the pool. Sikhs avenged the sacrilege of the Golden Temple by assassinating Masse Khan inside the Temple in August 1740. In 1746, another Lahore official Diwan Lakhpat Rai working for Yahiya Khan, and seeking revenge for the death of his brother, filled the pool with sand. In 1749, Sikhs restored the pool when Muin ul-Mulk slackened Mughal operations against Sikhs and sought their help during his operations in Multan. In 1757, the Afghani ruler Ahmad Shah Durrani, also known as Ahmad Shah Abdali, attacked Amritsar and desecrated the Golden Temple. He had waste poured into the pool along with entrails of slaughtered cows, before departing for Afghanistan. The Sikhs restored it again. In 1762, Ahmad Shah Durrani returned and had the Golden Temple blown up with gunpowder. Sikhs returned and celebrated Divali in its premises. In 1764, Jassa Singh Ahluvalia collected donations to rebuild the Golden Temple. A new main gateway (Darshani Deorhi), causeway and sanctum were completed in 1776, while the floor around the pool was completed in 1784. The Sikhs also completed a canal to bring in fresh water from Ravi River for the pool."
"A 1880 photograph of the Golden Temple, sacred pool and the nearby buildings. The walled courtyard and entrances were added later."
"Ranjit Singh founded the nucleus of the Sikh Empire at the age of 21 with help of Sukerchakia Misl forces he inherited and those of his mother-in-law Rani Sada Kaur. In 1802, at age 22, he took Amritsar from the Bhangi Sikh misl, paid homage at the Golden Temple and announced that he would renovate and rebuild it with marble and gold.[34] The Temple was renovated in marble and copper in 1809, and in 1830 Ranjit Singh donated gold to overlay the sanctum with gold foil.[9]"
"The management and operation of Darbar Sahib – a term that refers to the entire Golden Temple complex of buildings, was taken over by Ranjit Singh. He appointed Desa Singh Majithia to manage it, and made land grants whose collected revenue was assigned to pay for the Temple's maintenance and operation. Ranjit Singh also made the position of Temple officials hereditary.[2]"
The Golden temple complex map
"The Golden Temple's architecture reflects different architectural practices prevalent in the Indian subcontinent, as various iterations of temple were rebuilt and restored. The Temple is described by Ian Kerr, and other scholars, as a mixture of the Indo-Islamic Mughal and the Hindu Rajput architecture.[2][35]"
"The sanctum is a 12.25 x 12.25 metre square with two storeys and a gold foil dome. This sanctum has a marble platform that is a 19.7 x 19.7 metre square. It sits inside an almost square (154.5 x 148.5 m2) pool called amritsar or amritsarovar (amrit means nectar, sar is short form of sarovar and means pool). The pool is 5.1 metre deep and is surrounded by a 3.7 metre wide circumambulatory marble passage that is circled clockwise. The sanctum is connected to the platform by a causeway and the gateway into the causeway is called the Darshani Ḍeorhi (from Darshana Dvara). For those who wish to take a dip in the pool, the Temple provides a half hexagonal shelter and holy steps to Har ki Pauri.[2][36] Bathing in the pool is believed by many Sikhs to have restorative powers, purifying one's karma.[37] Some carry bottles of the pool water home particularly for sick friends and relatives.[38] The pool is maintained by volunteers who perform kar seva (community service) by draining and desilting it periodically.[37]"
Golden Temple
External links
Kinship Terminology
Vocabulary
"Bonda Remo Region India Native speakers 9,000 (2002)[1] Language family Austroasiatic Munda Koraput Remo Bonda Writing system Odia[2] Language codes ISO 639-3 bfw Glottolog bond1245[3]"
"The Bonda language, also known as Bondo or Remo, is a tribal language spoken in Odisha, formerly known as Southern Odisha, in India.[4] It had 2,568 speakers, all in Odisha, according to the 1951 Census of India,[5] increasing to approximately 9,000 speakers in 2002 according to SIL.[6]"
"The Bonda language is a tribal language belonging to the Southern subgroup of the Munda branch of the Austroasiatic language family.[1] Bonda is a spoken language with no traditional written system recorded. Bonda is a part of the Gutob-Remo branch, due to the similarities Bonda shares with another Southern Munda Language named Gutob[4]"
"In Kinship terms, the velar nasal, ŋ, is often used. Various kinship terms also represent multiple positions.[11]"
Bonda English Gloss[11] ba? Father iyɔŋ Mother remɔ Man mpɔr Husband kunui Wife bɔrai Aunt busã Uncle tata Grandfather ya/iya Father's Mother/Mother's Mother maŋ Eldest brother miŋ Elder sister ile?ǐ Grandchild masɔ Nephew
"Benedict Cumberbatch CBE Cumberbatch in 2016 Born Benedict Timothy Carlton Cumberbatch (1976-07-19) 19 July 1976 Hammersmith, London, England Education Brambletye School Harrow School Alma mater University of Manchester London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art Occupation Actor Years active 2000–present Spouse(s) Sophie Hunter (m. 2015) Children 2 Parent(s) Timothy Carlton Wanda Ventham Family Henry Carlton Cumberbatch (grandfather) Henry Arnold Cumberbatch (great-grandfather) Cumberbatch's voice from the BBC programme Front Row, 23 December 2010[1] Signature"
Benedict Cumberbatch
Catherine Zeta-Jones
"Bipasha Basu Basu at Mumbai in 2017 Born (1979-01-07) 7 January 1979[1] New Delhi, India Nationality Indian Other names Bonnie [2] Occupation Actress, Model Years active 1996–present Spouse(s) Karan Singh Grover (m. 2016)[3]"
Bipasha Basu
"R. Madhavan Madhavan in 2016 Born Madhavan Balaji Ranganathan (1970-06-01) 1 June 1970 Jamshedpur, Bihar, India (now in Jharkhand, India) Occupation Actor, writer, producer Years active 1994–present Spouse(s) Sarita Birje (1999–present)"
R. Madhavan
"Battle of Thermopylae Part of the Greco-Persian Wars The site of the battle today. Mount Kallidromon on the left, and the wide coastal plain formed by accretion of fluvial deposits over the centuries; the road to the right approximates the 480 BC shoreline. Date 20 August[1] or 8–10 September,[2] 480 BC Location Thermopylae, Greece 38°47′48″N 22°32′12″E﻿ / ﻿38.796607°N 22.536714°E﻿ / 38.796607; 22.536714 Result Persian victorya[›] Territorial changes Persians gain control of Boeotia Belligerents Greek city-states Persian Empire Commanders and leaders King Leonidas I † Demophilus † King Xerxes I of Persia Mardonius Hydarnes II Artapanus[3] Strength Total 5,200 (or 6100) (Herodotus) 7,400+ (Diodorus) 11,200 (Pausanias) 7,000 (modern est.)[4][5] 2,124,000 (Herodotus)[6] 120,000–300,000 (modern est.)b[›][7] Casualties and losses 4,000 (Herodotus)[8] c. 20,000 (Herodotus)[4] Location of the battle of Thermopylae"
Battle of Thermopylae
"Warang Citi Varang Kshiti Type Abugida Languages Ho Creator Lako Bodra Parent systems original invention Warang Citi Direction Left-to-right ISO 15924 Wara, 262 Unicode alias Warang Citi Unicode range U+118A0–U+118FF Final Accepted Script Proposal"
"Warang Citi (also written Varang Kshiti; Ho: 𑢹𑣗𑣁𑣜𑣊 𑣏𑣂𑣕𑣂,[1] IPA: /wɐrɐŋ ʧɪt̪ɪ/) is an abugida invented by Lako Bodra, used in primary and adult education and in various publications. It is used to write Ho, a language used in the Indian states of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Assam.[2]"
2009 Election Results
Elected Members
Notes
"Begunia Legislative Assembly of Odisha Constituency District Khordha Blocks Begunia, Bologarh Electorate 1,93,920[1][lower-alpha 1] Current constituency Created 1957 Party BJD MLA Prasanta Kumar Jagadev Const. No. 116 Lok Sabha Constituencies Bhubaneswar"
"Begunia (Sl. No.: 116) is a Vidhan Sabha constituency of Khordha district, Odisha, India.[2]"
This constituency includes Begunia block and Bologarh block.[3][4]
Fourteen elections were held between 1957 and 2014. Elected members from the Begunia constituency are:[6][7]
2014: (116): Prasanta Kumar Jagadev (BJD) 2009: (116): Prashanta Nanda NCP/ BJD [8] 2004: (60): Janaki Ballabh Patnaik (Congress) 2000: (60): Prashanta Nanda (BJP 1995: (60):Harihara Sahoo (Congress) 1990: (60): Surendranath Mishra Janata Dal) 1985: (60): Kailash Chandra Mohapatra (Congress) 1981: (60): Kailash Chandra Mohapatra (Congress-I) 1977: (60): Chintamani Panigrahi (Congress) 1974: (60): Satyananda Champatiray (UTC) 1971: (56): Gangadhar Paikray (CPI) 1967: (56): Gangadhar Paikray (CPI) 1961: (86): Gangadhar Paikray (CPI) 1957: (59): Satyananda Champatiray (Congress)
"In 2009 election, Biju Janata Dal candidate Prashanta Nanda defeated Indian National Congress candidate Pradip Kumar Sahoo by a margin of 10,617 votes.[10]"
"Reptiles are tetrapod animals in the class Reptilia, comprising today's turtles, crocodilians, snakes, amphisbaenians, lizards, tuatara, and their extinct relatives. The study of these traditional reptile orders, historically combined with that of modern amphibians, is called herpetology."
"Because some reptiles are more closely related to birds than they are to other reptiles (e.g., crocodiles are more closely related to birds than they are to lizards), the traditional groups of ""reptiles"" listed above do not together constitute a monophyletic grouping or clade (consisting of all descendants of a common ancestor). For this reason, many modern scientists prefer to consider the birds part of Reptilia as well, thereby making Reptilia a monophyletic class, including all living Diapsids.[1][2][3][4]"
"The earliest known proto-reptiles originated around 312 million years ago during the Carboniferous period, having evolved from advanced reptiliomorph tetrapods that became increasingly adapted to life on dry land. Some early examples include the lizard-like Hylonomus and Casineria. In addition to the living reptiles, there are many diverse groups that are now extinct, in some cases due to mass extinction events. In particular, the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event wiped out the pterosaurs, plesiosaurs, ornithischians, and sauropods, as well as many species of theropods, including troodontids, dromaeosaurids, tyrannosaurids, and abelisaurids, along with many Crocodyliformes, and squamates (e.g. mosasaurids)."
Reptile
Biology
"Toads European fire-bellied toad (Bombina bombina) Scientific classification Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Subphylum: Vertebrata Class: Amphibia Order: Anura Merrem, 1820 List of Anuran families"
In human culture
"Toad is a common name for certain frogs, especially of the family Bufonidae, that are characterized by dry, leathery skin, short legs, and large bumps covering the parotoid glands.[1][2]"
"A distinction between frogs and toads is not made in scientific taxonomy, but is common in popular culture (folk taxonomy), in which toads are associated with drier skin and more terrestrial habitats.[3]"
"In scientific taxonomy, toads are found in the families Bufonidae, Bombinatoridae, Discoglossidae, Pelobatidae, Rhinophrynidae, Scaphiopodidae and Microhylidae.[4]"
"Usually the largest of the bumps on the skin of a toad are those that cover the parotoid glands. The bumps are commonly called warts, but they have nothing to do with pathologic warts, being fixed in size, present on healthy specimens and not caused by infection.[5] Frogs travel from non-breeding to breeding areas of ponds and lakes. Bogert (1947) suggests that the toads' call is the most important cue in the homing to ponds. Toads, like many amphibians, exhibit breeding site fidelity (philopatry). Individual American toads return to their natal ponds to breed where they are likely to encounter siblings as potential mates. Although inbred examples within a species is possible, siblings rarely mate.[6] Toads recognize and avoid mating with close kin. Advertisement vocalizations given by males appear to serve as cues by which females recognize kin.[7] Kin recognition thus allows avoidance of inbreeding and consequent inbreeding depression."
"In Kenneth Grahame's 1908 novel The Wind in the Willows, Mr. Toad is a likeable and popular, if selfish and narcissistic, comic character. Mr. Toad reappears as the lead character in A. A. Milne's 1929 play Toad of Toad Hall, based on the book.[8][9]"
"Mr. Toad's Wild Ride, originally planned as a roller coaster but adapted by Walt Disney as a family-friendly dark ride, is one of the few Disneyland attractions operational since the park’s opening in 1955. The ride is based on the 1949 film The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad, itself developed (in part) from Grahame’s 1908 novel. A Magic Kingdom version of the ride operated upon the park’s Orlando, Florida opening in 1971, but was closed and replaced by The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh in 1998."
"In Chinese culture, the Money Toad (or Frog) Jin Chan appears as a Feng Shui charm for prosperity.[10]"
Toad
Further reading
Books by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay
Works by or about Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay at Internet Archive Works by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya at Google Books
"Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay Born (1903-04-03)3 April 1903 Mangalore, Madras Presidency (in present-day Karnataka), India Died 29 October 1988(1988-10-29) (aged 85) Bombay, Maharashtra, India Alma mater Bedford College (London) Spouse(s) Krishna Rao (m. 1917–1919) Harindranath Chattopadhyay (m. 1923–1988) Children Ramakrishna Chattopadhyaya Awards Ramon Magsaysay Award (1966) Padma Bhushan (1955) Padma Vibhushan (1987)"
"Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay (3 April 1903 – 29 October 1988) was an Indian social reformer and freedom fighter. She was most remembered for her contribution to the Indian independence movement; for being the driving force behind the renaissance of Indian handicrafts, hand looms, and theater in independent India; and for upliftment of the socio-economic standard of Indian women by pioneering the co-operation."
"Saikhom Mirabai Chanu (born 8 August 1994) is an Indian female weightlifter who won Gold medal in the 48 kg category at 2017 World Weightlifting Championships held in Anaheim , United States . Earlier she had won medals in Commonwealth games and silver medal in the women's 48 kg weight class at the 2014 Commonwealth Games at Glasgow,[1] where the gold medal was won by another Indian Khumukcham Sanjita. She has won a gold medal in Gold Coast commonwealth games 2018 by registering a Commonwealth games record. [2]"
"Mirabai qualified for the 2016 Rio Olympics in the women's 48 kg category. However, she failed to finish the event as she failed to lift the weight in any of her three attempts in clean & jerk section.[3] In 2017, she won the Gold medal in the Women's 48 kg category by lifting a competition record 194 kg in total (85 kg snatch and 109 kg clean & jerk) in the 2017 World Weightlifting Championships held at Anaheim, CA, United States.[4] She hails from Manipur state of India."
"For her dedication to the sport and her excellence in the sport, she was felicitated by the Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh who also presented her with a cheque for Rs 20 lakh[5]. In 2018, she was awarded with the Padma Shri.[6]"
"The Shape of Water Theatrical release poster Directed by Guillermo del Toro Produced by Guillermo del Toro J. Miles Dale Screenplay by Guillermo del Toro Vanessa Taylor Story by Guillermo del Toro Starring Sally Hawkins Michael Shannon Richard Jenkins Doug Jones Michael Stuhlbarg Octavia Spencer Music by Alexandre Desplat Cinematography Dan Laustsen Edited by Sidney Wolinsky Production companies TSG Entertainment Double Dare You Productions Distributed by Fox Searchlight Pictures Release date August 31, 2017 (2017-08-31) (Venice) December 1, 2017 (2017-12-01) (United States) Running time 123 minutes[1] Country United States Language English Budget $19.5 million[2] Box office $192.8 million[3]"
"3 + 2 = 5 with apples, a popular choice in textbooks[1]"
"Addition (often signified by the plus symbol ""+"") is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic; the others are subtraction, multiplication and division. The addition of two whole numbers is the total amount of those quantities combined. For example, in the adjacent picture, there is a combination of three apples and two apples together, making a total of five apples. This observation is equivalent to the mathematical expression ""3 + 2 = 5"" i.e., ""3 add 2 is equal to 5""."
Addition
"Dwayne Johnson Johnson in March 2013 Born Dwayne Douglas Johnson (1972-05-02) May 2, 1972 Hayward, California, U.S. Residence Southwest Ranches, Florida, U.S. Alma mater University of Miami (BGS) Occupation Actor, producer, professional wrestler Years active 1996–2004, 2011–present (wrestler) 1999–present (actor) Political party Independent Spouse(s) Dany Garcia (m. 1997; div. 2007) Partner(s) Lauren Hashian (2007–present) Children 2 Family Rocky Johnson (Father) Ata Johnson (Mother) Professional wrestling career Family Anoaʻi Ring name(s) Dwayne Johnson[1] Flex Kavana[2] Rocky Maivia[2] The Rock[2] Billed height 6 ft 5 in (1.96 m)[3] Billed weight 260 lb (118 kg)[3] Billed from Miami, Florida[3] Trained by Pat Patterson[4] Rocky Johnson[5] Tom Prichard[6] Debut March 10, 1996[5]"
"Dwayne Douglas Johnson (born May 2, 1972), also known by his ring name The Rock, is an American actor, producer, and semi-retired professional wrestler."
Dwayne Johnson
"Scarlett Johansson Johansson in 2008 Born Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (1984-11-22) November 22, 1984 New York City, New York, U.S. Citizenship American Danish Occupation Actress singer Years active 1994–present Spouse(s) Ryan Reynolds (m. 2008; div. 2011) Romain Dauriac (m. 2014; div. 2017) Children 1 Awards Full list"
"Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress and singer. She was among the world's highest-paid actresses from 2014 to 2016, has made multiple appearances in the Forbes Celebrity 100, and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Born and raised in Manhattan, New York City, she aspired to be an actress from a young age, and first appeared on stage in an Off-Broadway play as a child. Johansson made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994) and was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for Manny & Lo (1996). She gained further recognition for her work in The Horse Whisperer (1998) and Ghost World (2001)."
Scarlett Johansson
"Game of Thrones Genre Fantasy Serial drama Created by David Benioff D. B. Weiss Based on A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin Starring see List of Game of Thrones characters Theme music composer Ramin Djawadi Opening theme ""Main Title"" Composer(s) Ramin Djawadi Country of origin United States Original language(s) English No. of seasons 7 No. of episodes 67 (list of episodes) Production Executive producer(s) David Benioff D. B. Weiss Carolyn Strauss Frank Doelger Bernadette Caulfield George R. R. Martin Location(s) Northern Ireland Croatia Iceland Spain Malta Morocco Scotland Canada United States Running time 50–80 minutes Production company(s) Television 360 Grok! Television Generator Entertainment Startling Television Bighead Littlehead Distributor Warner Bros. Television Distribution Release Original network HBO Picture format 1080i (16:9 HDTV) Audio format Dolby Digital 5.1 Original release April 17, 2011 (2011-04-17) – present Chronology Related shows After the Thrones Thronecast External links Website Production website"
"Game of Thrones is an American fantasy drama television series created by David Benioff and D. B. Weiss. It is an adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R. R. Martin's series of fantasy novels, the first of which is A Game of Thrones. It is filmed in Belfast and elsewhere in the United Kingdom, Canada, Croatia, Iceland, Malta, Morocco, Spain, and the United States. The series premiered on HBO in the United States on April 17, 2011, and its seventh season ended on August 27, 2017. The series will conclude with its eighth season premiering in 2019.[1][2]"
Game of Thrones
Career
"Armaan Malik Armaan Malik at Sachin Joshi's Diwali bash in 2016 Background information Birth name Armaan Malik Born (1995-07-22) 22 July 1995 Mumbai, Maharashtra, India Occupation(s) Playback singer Instruments mostly vocals, guitar Years active 2008-present Website http://armaanmalik.me"
"Armaan Malik (born 22 July 1995) is an Indian playback singer, composer and songwriter.[1][2] A finalist on Sa Re Ga Ma Pa L'il Champs Armaan advanced to eighth place with public votes, previously represented by Universal Music India, and now signed on by T-Series.[3] His first on-screen Movie appearance in 2011 Movie Kaccha Limboo [[Fileabbu Amaal Armaan. thumb|right|Armaan wih his father Daboo Malik and brother Amaal Mallik at 61st Filmfare Awards in 2016]]"
Armaan Malik
"Arijit Singh Singh in 2013 Born (1987-04-25) 25 April 1987[1] Jiaganj, Murshidabad, West Bengal Nationality Indian Occupation Singer music composer[2] music programmer music producer record producer[3] live performer[4] Spouse(s) Koyel Roy (2014)[5] Children 2 Musical career Genres Playback singing filmi pop EDM[6] Ghazal Classical[7] Instruments Vocals guitar piano tabla"
Arijit Singh
"A Song of Ice and Fire A Song of Ice and Fire book collection box set cover A Game of Thrones (1996) A Clash of Kings (1998) A Storm of Swords (2000) A Feast for Crows (2005) A Dance with Dragons (2011) The Winds of Winter (forthcoming) A Dream of Spring (forthcoming) Author George R. R. Martin Country United States Language English Genre Epic fantasy[1] Publisher Bantam Books (US, Canada) Voyager Books (UK, Australia) Published August 1996–present Media type Print (hardback & paperback) audiobook"
"A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels by the American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. He began the first volume of the series, A Game of Thrones, in 1991, and it was published in 1996. Martin, who initially envisioned the series as a trilogy, has published five out of a planned seven volumes. The fifth and most recent volume of the series published in 2011, A Dance with Dragons, took Martin six years to write. He is still writing the sixth novel, The Winds of Winter."
"Elephants are large mammals of the family Elephantidae and the order Proboscidea. Three species are currently recognised: the African bush elephant (Loxodonta africana), the African forest elephant (L. cyclotis), and the Asian elephant (Elephas maximus). Elephants are scattered throughout sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. Elephantidae is the only surviving family of the order Proboscidea; other, now extinct, members of the order include deinotheres, gomphotheres, mammoths, and mastodons."
"All elephants have several distinctive features, the most notable of which is a long trunk (also called a proboscis), used for many purposes, particularly breathing, lifting water, and grasping objects. Their incisors grow into tusks, which can serve as weapons and as tools for moving objects and digging. Elephants' large ear flaps help to control their body temperature. Their pillar-like legs can carry their great weight. African elephants have larger ears and concave backs while Asian elephants have smaller ears and convex or level backs."
Movement
"Walk 5-8 km/h Trot 8-13 km/h Pace 8-13 km/h Canter 16-27 km/h Galop 25-30 km/h, record: 7001196555555555555♠70.76 km/h (43.97 mph)[81]"
"The horse (Equus ferus caballus)[2][3] is one of two extant subspecies of Equus ferus. It is an odd-toed ungulate mammal belonging to the taxonomic family Equidae. The horse has evolved over the past 45 to 55 million years from a small multi-toed creature, Eohippus, into the large, single-toed animal of today. Humans began to domesticate horses around 4000 BC, and their domestication is believed to have been widespread by 3000 BC. Horses in the subspecies caballus are domesticated, although some domesticated populations live in the wild as feral horses. These feral populations are not true wild horses, as this term is used to describe horses that have never been domesticated, such as the endangered Przewalski's horse, a separate subspecies, and the only remaining true wild horse. There is an extensive, specialized vocabulary used to describe equine-related concepts, covering everything from anatomy to life stages, size, colors, markings, breeds, locomotion, and behavior."
"Horses' anatomy enables them to make use of speed to escape predators and they have a well-developed sense of balance and a strong fight-or-flight response. Related to this need to flee from predators in the wild is an unusual trait: horses are able to sleep both standing up and lying down, with younger horses tending to sleep significantly more than adults.[4] Female horses, called mares, carry their young for approximately 11 months, and a young horse, called a foal, can stand and run shortly following birth. Most domesticated horses begin training under saddle or in harness between the ages of two and four. They reach full adult development by age five, and have an average lifespan of between 25 and 30 years."
"Women's health refers to the health of women, which differs from that of men in many unique ways. Women's health is an example of population health, where health is defined by the World Health Organization as ""a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity"". Often treated as simply women's reproductive health, many groups argue for a broader definition pertaining to the overall health of women, better expressed as ""The health of women"". These differences are further exacerbated in developing countries where women, whose health includes both their risks and experiences, are further disadvantaged."
Women's health
Waterfalls
Hot springs
Jain monuments
Monuments
Wildlife
Beaches
Temples
Scenic spots
Sanctuaries
Major attractions
Forts
Museums
Lakes
Flora and fauna
Buddhist monuments
Chilka Lake
"Tourism in Odisha is one of the main contributors to the Economy of Odisha, India, with a 500 km (310 mi) long coastline, towering mountains, serene lakes and frolicking rivers. Odisha is one of the major tourism sectors of India, with various tourists' attractions, ranging from wildlife reserves, beaches, temples, monuments, the arts and festivals. Other than wildlife reserves, beaches, temples, monuments, the arts and festivals, the Odisha Tourism Development Corporation, a Public Sector Undertaking of Government of Odisha, is also developing tourism sector of Odisha and India."
Odisha has a long coastline of 500 km and consists of some of the most beautiful beaches of the world. Exotic beaches of Odisha are the venue of India Surf Festival 2014.
Chandipur Beach Chilika Gahirmatha Beach Gopalpur Beach Konark Beach Puri Beach Talasari Beach
Dhauli Lalitgiri Puphagiri Ratnagiri
Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves
Barabati Fort Chudanga Gada Raibania Fort Sisupalgarh
"Odisha State Museum Regional Museum of Natural History, Bhubaneswar Tribal Research Institute Museum"
Chilika Lake
"Chilka Lake: at the mouth of the Daya River, is Asia's largest brackish water lake and second largest brackish water lake in the world. A bird sanctuary for millions of migratory birds, and is also noted for its population of Irrawaddy dolphins (Orcaella brevirostris), the only known population of Irrawaddy dolphins in India. It is one of only two lagoons in the world that are home to these species.[1] Kanjia Lake: Lake inside the Nandankanan Zoological Park known for boat riding and scenic beauty situated at Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. Anshupa Lake: a horseshoe shaped fresh water lake on the left bank of the Mahanadi River, opposite Banki in Cuttack district, Odisha, India. Anshupa Lake in Banki is 40 km from the city of Cuttack, which also acts as a shelter for the migratory birds in the wintry weather season."
"Badaghagara Waterfall Barehipani Falls Devkund Waterfall Duduma Waterfalls Joranda Falls Khandadhar Falls, Kendujhar Khandadhar Falls, Sundagarh Koilighugar Waterfall Sanaghagara Waterfall Dian Jhar (Diudhar waterfall), Cuttack"
Tourism in Odisha
Atri Deulajhari Taptapani Tarabalo
Sunset at Bhitarkanika National Park Lake
White tiger in Nandankanan Zoological Park
"Odisha is a remarkable place as it is the home to the royal Bengal tiger, consisting of many sanctuaries and natural scenic spots."
Daringbadi Barunei Dhamra Chandbali Gupteswar Cave Tensa Saptasajya Satabhaya
History
16th and 17th centuries
Description
Chinese origins
18th century to present day
Pugs at Curlie (based on DMOZ)
"The Pug is a breed of dog with physically distinctive features of a wrinkly, short-muzzled face, and curled tail. The breed has a fine, glossy coat that comes in a variety of colours, most often fawn or black, and a compact square body with well-developed muscles."
"Pugs were brought from China to Europe in the sixteenth century and were popularized in Western Europe by the House of Orange of the Netherlands, and the House of Stuart.[2] In the United Kingdom, in the nineteenth century, Queen Victoria developed a passion for pugs which she passed on to other members of the Royal family."
"A fawn Pug puppy, Best in Puppies competition,"
"While the pugs that are depicted in eighteenth century prints tend to be long and lean,[2] modern breed preferences are for a square cobby body, a compact form, a deep chest, and well-developed muscle.[4] Their smooth and glossy coats can be fawn, apricot fawn, silver fawn, or black.[4][6] The markings are clearly defined, and there is a trace of a black line extending from the occiput to the tail.[4] The tail normally curls tightly over the hip.[2]"
"Pugs' legs are strong, straight, of moderate length, and are set well under. Their shoulders are moderately laid back. Their ankles are strong, their feet are small, their toes are well split-up, and their nails are black.[4] The lower teeth normally protrude further than their upper, resulting in an under-bite.[1]"
"William Hogarth with his Pug, Trump, in 1745."
"A portrait of Princess Ekaterina Dmitrievna Golitsyna by Louis-Michel van Loo (1759) Moscow, Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts"
"In ancient times, Pugs were bred to be companions for ruling families in China. The pet Pugs were highly valued by Chinese Emperors, and the royal dogs were kept in luxury and guarded by soldiers.[3] Pugs later spread to other parts of Asia. In Tibet, Buddhist monks kept Pugs as pets in their monasteries.[3] The breed has retained its affectionate devotion to its owners since ancient times.[3]"
"Pugs were popular at European courts, and reportedly become the official dog of the House of Orange in 1572 after a Pug named Pompey saved the life of the Prince of Orange by alerting him to the approach of assassins.[1]"
"The breed eventually became popular in other European countries as well. Pugs were painted by Goya in Spain, and in Italy they rode up front on private carriages, dressed in jackets and pantaloons that matched those of the coachman. They were used by the military to track animals and people, and were also employed as guard dogs.[2]"
"The English painter William Hogarth was the devoted owner of a series of Pugs. His 1745 self-portrait, which is now in London's Tate Gallery, includes his Pug, Trump.[15] The Pug was also well known in Italy. In 1789, a Mrs. Piozzi wrote in her journal, ""The little Pug dog or Dutch mastiff has quitted London for Padua, I perceive. Every carriage I meet here has a Pug in it.""[16] The popularity of the Pug continued to spread in France during the eighteenth century. Before her marriage to Napoleon Bonaparte, Joséphine had her Pug Fortune carry concealed messages to her family while she was confined at Les Carmes prison, it having alone been given visiting rights.[17]"
"In nineteenth century England, the breed flourished under the patronage of Queen Victoria. Her many Pugs, which she bred herself, included Olga, Pedro, Minka, Fatima and Venus.[2] Her involvement with dogs in general helped to establish the Kennel Club, which was formed in 1873.[2] Queen Victoria favoured apricot and fawn colours. Queen Victoria's passion for Pugs was passed on to many other members of the Royal family, including her grandson King George V[18] and his son King Edward VIII. Many responded to the breed's image of anti-functionalism and diminutive size during this period.[19]"
"In paintings and engravings of the 18th and 19th centuries, Pugs usually appear with longer legs and noses than today, and sometimes with cropped ears. The modern Pug's appearance probably changed after 1860 when a new wave of Pugs were imported directly from China. These Pugs had shorter legs and the modern-style Pug nose. The British aristocrat Lady Brassey is credited with making black Pugs fashionable after she brought some back from China in 1886.[1][2] Ear cropping was made illegal in 1895.[20]"
Pug
The Epics
Jainism
Buddhism
"In Buddhist texts Ahimsa (or its Pāli cognate avihiṃsā) is part of the Five Precepts (Pañcasīla), the first of which has been to abstain from killing. This precept of Ahimsa is applicable to both the Buddhist layperson and the monk community.[112][113][114]"
"Mahavira, The Torch-bearer of Ahinsa"
"Ahimsa (IAST: ahiṃsā, Pāli:[1] avihiṃsā) means 'not to injure' and 'compassion' and refers to a key virtue in Indian religions.[2][3][4] The word is derived from the Sanskrit root hiṃs – to strike; hiṃsā is injury or harm, a-hiṃsā is the opposite of this, i.e. cause no injury, do no harm.[5][6] Ahimsa is also referred to as nonviolence, and it applies to all living beings—including all animals—in ancient Indian religions.[7]"
"Ahimsa is one of the cardinal virtues[3] and an important tenet of Jainism, Hinduism, and Buddhism. Ahimsa is a multidimensional concept,[8] inspired by the premise that all living beings have the spark of the divine spiritual energy; therefore, to hurt another being is to hurt oneself. Ahimsa has also been related to the notion that any violence has karmic consequences. While ancient scholars of Hinduism pioneered and over time perfected the principles of Ahimsa, the concept reached an extraordinary status in the ethical philosophy of Jainism.[3][9] Most popularly, Mahatma Gandhi strongly believed in the principle of ahimsa.[10]"
"Ahimsa's precept of 'cause no injury' includes one's deeds, words, and thoughts.[11][12] Classical literature of Hinduism such as Mahabharata and Ramayana, as well as modern scholars[13] debate principles of Ahimsa when one is faced with war and situations requiring self-defence. The historic literature from India and modern discussions have contributed to theories of Just War, and theories of appropriate self-defence.[14]"
"The Mahabharata, one of the epics of Hinduism, has multiple mentions of the phrase Ahimsa Paramo Dharma (अहिंसा परमॊ धर्मः), which literally means: non-violence is the highest moral virtue. For example, Mahaprasthanika Parva has the verse:[36]"
"The above passage from Mahabharata emphasises the cardinal importance of Ahimsa in Hinduism, and literally means:"
"Ahimsa is the highest virtue, Ahimsa is the highest self-control, Ahimsa is the greatest gift, Ahimsa is the best suffering, Ahimsa is the highest sacrifice, Ahimsa is the finest strength, Ahimsa is the greatest friend, Ahimsa is the greatest happiness, Ahimsa is the highest truth, and Ahimsa is the greatest teaching.[1][2] ^ Chapple, C. (1990). Ecological Nonviolence and the Hindu Tradition. In Perspectives on Nonviolence (pp. 168–177). Springer New York. ^ Ahimsa: To do no harm Subramuniyaswami, What is Hinduism?, Chapter 45, Pages 359–361"
"Some other examples where the phrase Ahimsa Paramo Dharma are discussed include Adi Parva, Vana Parva and Anushasana Parva. The Bhagavad Gita, among other things, discusses the doubts and questions about appropriate response when one faces systematic violence or war. These verses develop the concepts of lawful violence in self-defence and the theories of just war. However, there is no consensus on this interpretation. Gandhi, for example, considers this debate about non-violence and lawful violence as a mere metaphor for the internal war within each human being, when he or she faces moral questions.[37]"
Ahimsa
"The hand with a wheel on the palm symbolises the Jain Vow of Ahimsa. The word in the middle is ""Ahimsa"". The wheel represents the dharmacakra which stands for the resolve to halt the cycle of reincarnation through relentless pursuit of truth and non-violence."
"In Jainism, the understanding and implementation of Ahimsā is more radical, scrupulous, and comprehensive than in any other religion.[87] Killing any living being out of passions is considered hiṃsā (to injure) and abstaining from such an act is ahimsā (noninjury).[88] The vow of ahimsā is considered the foremost among the 'five vows of Jainism'. Other vows like truth (satya) are meant for safeguarding the vow of ahimsā.[89] In the practice of Ahimsa, the requirements are less strict for the lay persons (sravakas) who have undertaken anuvrata (Smaller Vows) than for the Jain monastics who are bound by the Mahavrata ""Great Vows"".[90] The statement ahimsā paramo dharmaḥ is often found inscribed on the walls of the Jain temples.[4] Like in Hinduism, the aim is to prevent the accumulation of harmful karma.[91] When Mahavira revived and reorganised the Jain faith in the 6th or 5th century BCE,[92] Ahimsa was already an established, strictly observed rule.[93] Rishabhanatha (Ādinātha), the first Jain Tirthankara, whom modern Western historians consider to be a historical figure, followed by Parshvanatha (Pārśvanātha)[94] the twenty-third Tirthankara lived in about the 8th century BCE.[95] He founded the community to which Mahavira's parents belonged.[96] Ahimsa was already part of the ""Fourfold Restraint"" (Caujjama), the vows taken by Parshva's followers.[97] In the times of Mahavira and in the following centuries, Jains were at odds with both Buddhists and followers of the Vedic religion or Hindus, whom they accused of negligence and inconsistency in the implementation of Ahimsa.[98] According to the Jain tradition either lacto vegetarianism or veganism is mandatory.[99]"
Mechanism of function
Vaccination Child receiving an oral polio vaccine ICD-9-CM 99.3-99.5
"Vaccination is the administration of antigenic material (a vaccine) to stimulate an individual's immune system to develop adaptive immunity to a pathogen. Vaccines can prevent or ameliorate infectious disease. When a sufficiently large percentage of a population has been vaccinated, herd immunity results. The effectiveness of vaccination has been widely studied and verified.[1][2][3] Vaccination is the most effective method of preventing infectious diseases;[4] widespread immunity due to vaccination is largely responsible for the worldwide eradication of smallpox and the elimination of diseases such as polio, measles, and tetanus from much of the world."
Polio vaccination started in Sweden in 1957.
"Generically, the process of artificial induction of immunity, in an effort to protect against infectious disease, works by 'priming' the immune system with an 'immunogen'. Stimulating immune responses with an infectious agent is known as immunization. Vaccination includes various ways of administering immunogens.[13]"
"Some vaccines are administered after the patient already has contracted a disease. Vaccines given after exposure to smallpox, within the first three days, are reported to attenuate the disease considerably, and vaccination up to a week after exposure probably offers some protection from disease or may reduce the severity of disease.[14] The first rabies immunization was given by Louis Pasteur to a child after he was bitten by a rabid dog. Since then, it has been found that, in people with healthy immune systems, four doses of rabies vaccine over 14 days, wound care, and treatment of the bite with rabies immune globulin, commenced as soon as possible after exposure, is effective in preventing rabies in humans.[15] Other examples include experimental AIDS, cancer and Alzheimer's disease vaccines. Such immunizations aim to trigger an immune response more rapidly and with less harm than natural infection."
Vaccination
"Natural-language processing (NLP) is an area of computer science and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human (natural) languages, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data."
"Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation (MAHT) or interactive translation) is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another."
Decoding the meaning of the source text; and Re-encoding this meaning in the target language.
"On a basic level, MT performs simple substitution of words in one language for words in another, but that alone usually cannot produce a good translation of a text because recognition of whole phrases and their closest counterparts in the target language is needed. Solving this problem with corpus statistical, and neural techniques is a rapidly growing field that is leading to better translations, handling differences in linguistic typology, translation of idioms, and the isolation of anomalies.[1][not in citation given]"
"Machine translation can use a method based on linguistic rules, which means that words will be translated in a linguistic way – the most suitable (orally speaking) words of the target language will replace the ones in the source language.[citation needed]"
Approaches
Translation process
"Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation (MAHT) or interactive translation) is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another."
"The idea of machine translation may be traced back to the 17th century. In 1629, René Descartes proposed a universal language, with equivalent ideas in different tongues sharing one symbol.[4] The field of ""machine translation"" appeared in Warren Weaver[5]'s Memorandum on Translation (1949). The first researcher in the field, Yehosha Bar-Hillel, began his research at MIT (1951). A Georgetown University MT research team followed (1951) with a public demonstration of its Georgetown-IBM experiment system in 1954. MT research programs popped up in Japan[6][7] and Russia (1955), and the first MT conference was held in London (1956).[8][9] Researchers continued to join the field as the Association for Machine Translation and Computational Linguistics was formed in the U.S. (1962) and the National Academy of Sciences formed the Automatic Language Processing Advisory Committee (ALPAC) to study MT (1964). Real progress was much slower, however, and after the ALPAC report (1966), which found that the ten-year-long research had failed to fulfill expectations, funding was greatly reduced.[10] According to a 1972 report by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E), the feasibility of large-scale MT was reestablished by the success of the Logos MT system in translating military manuals into Vietnamese during that conflict."
The human translation process may be described as:
Machine translation
See also
Classification
Kusunda word list (Wiktionary)
"Kusunda Ban Raja mihaq Native to Nepal Region Gandaki Zone Ethnicity 270 Kusunda (2011 census) Extinct 19 April 2018, with the death of Rajamama Kusunda[1] Language family Language isolate Language codes ISO 639-3 kgg Glottolog kusu1250[2] Ethnologue locations: (west) Dang and Pyuthan districts (dark grey) within Rapti Zone; (center) Tanahu District within Gandaki Zone EndangeredLanguages.com location: red WALS location: purple (Gorkha District)"
Kusunda (Kusanda) is a language isolate spoken by a handful of people in western and central Nepal. It has only recently been described in any detail.
"Watters (2005) published a mid-sized grammatical description of the language, plus vocabulary, which shows that Kusunda is indeed a language isolate, not just genealogically but also lexically, grammatically, and phonologically distinct from its neighbors. It appears that Kusunda is a remnant of the languages spoken in northern India before the influx of Tibeto-Burman- and Indo-Iranian-speaking peoples, however it is not classified as a Munda or a Dravidian language. It thus joins Burushaski, Nihali and (potentially) the substrate of the Vedda language in the list of South Asian languages which do not fall into the main categories of Indo-European, Dravidian, Sino-Tibetan and Austroasiatic."
External links
"Ryan Merkley Born Cambridge, Canada Alma mater University of Waterloo Occupation CEO, Creative Commons"
"Ryan Merkley is the CEO of the American non-profit organization Creative Commons. He is an advocate for open licenses, net neutrality and open data initiatives in the public sector. Merkley is the Chair of the Open Worm Foundation board of directors[1] and was trustee at the Quetico Foundation.[2] He writes and speaks on issues such as the sharing economy, academic publishing and legal infrastructure for sharing content.[3]"
External links
Career
Early life
"Manu Bhaker Personal information Born 18 Feb 2002 (2002-02-18) (age 16) Jhajjar, India Occupation Sportsperson (Shooter) Medal record Representing  India Women's shooting ISSF World Cup 2018 Guadalajara 10 m Air Pistol Commonwealth games 2018 Goldcoast 10 m Air Pistol"
Manu Bhaker is an Indian sport shooter. She represented India at the 2018 ISSF World Cup and won two gold medals. She is the youngest Indian to win a gold medal at the ISSF World Cup.[1] She won the gold medal in women's 10 m air pistol event at 2018 Commonwealth Games just at the age of 16 in her maiden Commonwealth Games appearance.[2][3]
"Bhaker was born in Goria village near Jhajjar in the Jhajjar district of Haryana. Her father, Ram Kishan Bhaker, works as a chief engineer in the Merchant Navy.[4] Until the age of 14 Bhaker excelled in other sports like Huyen langlon, a Manipuri martial art, as well as boxing, tennis and skating, winning medals at the national games in these events.[4]"
"With an investment of ₹150000 by her father,[4] Bhaker decided to take up competitive shooting. She first tasted success at the international level when she won the silver medal at the 2017 Asian Junior Championships. In the 2017 National games held at Kerala, Bhaker won nine gold medals[5] and defeated multiple World Cup medalist Heena Sidhu and broke Sidhu's record of 240.8 points, scoring 242.3 points in the final.[4]"
"In the 2018 International Shooting Sport Federation World Cup held at Guadalajara, Mexico. Bhaker won the gold medal in the Women's 10 meter air pistol, defeating Mexico's Alejandra Zavala, a two-time champion. Bhaker scored 237.5 the final match against Zavalaa, who scored 237.1.[6] By winning the gold medal at age 16, Bhaker became the youngest Indian to win a gold medal at the World Cup.[1][7]"
"Bhaker won her second gold medal at the World Cup in the 10 meter Air Pistol mixed team event. She was paired with fellow countrymen Om Prakash Mitharval. The pair shot a score of 476.1 points, defeating Sandra Reitz and Christian Reitz who scored 475.2.[8][9][10][11]"
"Bhaker scored 388/400 points at 2018 Commonwealth Games in women's 10m air pistol qualifying round and qualified for the finals. In the final round of the women's 10m air pistol event during the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, she secured the gold medal with setting a new Commonwealth Games record of 240.9 points.[12][13][14]"
Manu Bhaker at the International Shooting Sport Federation
"Katherine Maher Maher in 2016 Born Katherine Roberts Maher (1983-04-18) April 18, 1983 Wilton, Connecticut, U.S. Nationality American Alma mater New York University Occupation Business executive Years active 2005–present Title Executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation Katherine Maher introducing herself recorded June 2016"
"Katherine Roberts Maher (born April 18, 1983)[1] is the executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, a position she has held since June 2016.[2] Previously she was chief communications officer.[3] In addition to a background in the field of information and communications technology (ICT), Maher has worked in the non-profit and international sectors focusing on the use of technology to empower human rights and international development.[1]"
Recipients
Sahitya Akademi Award to Santhali Writers by Sahitya Akademi since 2005.[1]
Year Work Author 2017 Tahena.n Tangi re (Poetry) Bhujanga Tudu[2] 2016 Nalha (Poetry) Gobinda Chandra Majhi 2015 Parsi Khatir (Play) Rabilal Tudu 2014 Mala Mudam (Play) Jamadar Kisku 2013 Chanda Bonga (Poetry) Arjun Charan Hembram 2012 Banchaw Akan Goj Hor (Short Stories) Gangadhar Hansda 2011 Banchao Larhai (Poetry) Aditya Kumar Mandi 2010 Rahi Ranwak’ Kana (Play) Bhogla Soren 2009 Say Sahed (Poetry) Damayanti Beshra 2008 Manmi (Short Stories) Badal Hembram 2007 Chet Re Cikayana (Play) Kherwal Saren 2006 Guru Gomke Pondet Raghunath Murmu (Biography) Ram Chandra Murmu 2005 Bhabna (Poetry) Jadumani Besra
Machine learning tasks
"↑ Supposedly paraphrased from: Samuel, Arthur (1959). ""Some Studies in Machine Learning Using the Game of Checkers"". IBM Journal of Research and Development. 3 (3): 210–229. doi:10.1147/rd.33.0210.  See, for example, Koza, John R.; Bennett, Forrest H.; Andre, David; Keane, Martin A. (1996). Automated Design of Both the Topology and Sizing of Analog Electrical Circuits Using Genetic Programming. Artificial Intelligence in Design '96. Springer, Dordrecht. pp. 151–170. doi:10.1007/978-94-009-0279-4_9. Paraphrasing Arthur Samuel (1959), the question is: How can computers learn to solve problems without being explicitly programmed?  ↑ Samuel, Arthur L. (1988). ""Some Studies in Machine Learning Using the Game of Checkers. I"". Computer Games I. Springer, New York, NY. pp. 335–365. doi:10.1007/978-1-4613-8716-9_14. ISBN 9781461387183.  ↑ http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1116194/machine-learning  This tertiary source reuses information from other sources but does not name them. ↑ Ron Kohavi; Foster Provost (1998). ""Glossary of terms"". Machine Learning. 30: 271–274.  1 2 3 4 5 Bishop, C. M. (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, ISBN 0-387-31073-8  ↑ Dickson, Ben. ""Exploiting machine learning in cybersecurity"". TechCrunch. Retrieved 2017-05-23.  ↑ Wernick, M. N.; Yang, Y.; Brankov, J. G.; Yourganov, G.; Strother, S. C. (2010). ""Machine Learning in Medical Imaging"". IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. 27 (4): 25–38. Bibcode:2010ISPM...27...25W. doi:10.1109/MSP.2010.936730. PMC 4220564 .  ↑ Mannila, Heikki (1996). Data mining: machine learning, statistics, and databases. Int'l Conf. Scientific and Statistical Database Management. IEEE Computer Society.  ↑ Friedman, Jerome H. (1998). ""Data Mining and Statistics: What's the connection?"". Computing Science and Statistics. 29 (1): 3–9.  ↑ ""Dark Reading"".  ↑ ""AI Business"".  ↑ ""Machine Learning: What it is and why it matters"". www.sas.com. Retrieved 2016-03-29.  ↑ Mitchell, T. (1997). Machine Learning. McGraw Hill. p. 2. ISBN 0-07-042807-7.  ↑ Harnad, Stevan (2008), ""The Annotation Game: On Turing (1950) on Computing, Machinery, and Intelligence"", in Epstein, Robert; Peters, Grace, The Turing Test Sourcebook: Philosophical and Methodological Issues in the Quest for the Thinking Computer, Kluwer  ↑ R. Kohavi and F. Provost, ""Glossary of terms,"" Machine Learning, vol. 30, no. 2–3, pp. 271–274, 1998. ↑ Sarle, Warren. ""Neural Networks and statistical models"". CiteSeerX 10.1.1.27.699 .  1 2 3 4 Russell, Stuart; Norvig, Peter (2003) [1995]. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd ed.). Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0137903955.  1 2 Langley, Pat (2011). ""The changing science of machine learning"". Machine Learning. 82 (3): 275–279. doi:10.1007/s10994-011-5242-y.  ↑ Le Roux, Nicolas; Bengio, Yoshua; Fitzgibbon, Andrew (2012). ""Improving First and Second-Order Methods by Modeling Uncertainty"". In Sra, Suvrit; Nowozin, Sebastian; Wright, Stephen J. Optimization for Machine Learning. MIT Press. p. 404.  1 2 Michael I. Jordan (2014-09-10). ""statistics and machine learning"". reddit. Retrieved 2014-10-01.  ↑ Cornell University Library. ""Breiman: Statistical Modeling: The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author)"". Retrieved 8 August 2015.  ↑ Gareth James; Daniela Witten; Trevor Hastie; Robert Tibshirani (2013). An Introduction to Statistical Learning. Springer. p. vii.  ↑ Mohri, Mehryar; Rostamizadeh, Afshin; Talwalkar, Ameet (2012). Foundations of Machine Learning. USA, Massachusetts: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262018258.  1 2 Alpaydin, Ethem (2010). Introduction to Machine Learning. London: The MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-01243-0. Retrieved 4 February 2017.  ↑ Honglak Lee, Roger Grosse, Rajesh Ranganath, Andrew Y. Ng. ""Convolutional Deep Belief Networks for Scalable Unsupervised Learning of Hierarchical Representations"" Proceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference on Machine Learning, 2009. ↑ Lu, Haiping; Plataniotis, K.N.; Venetsanopoulos, A.N. (2011). ""A Survey of Multilinear Subspace Learning for Tensor Data"" (PDF). Pattern Recognition. 44 (7): 1540–1551. doi:10.1016/j.patcog.2011.01.004.  ↑ Yoshua Bengio (2009). Learning Deep Architectures for AI. Now Publishers Inc. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-1-60198-294-0.  ↑ Tillmann, A. M. (2015). ""On the Computational Intractability of Exact and Approximate Dictionary Learning"". IEEE Signal Processing Letters. 22 (1): 45–49. arXiv:1405.6664 . Bibcode:2015ISPL...22...45T. doi:10.1109/LSP.2014.2345761.  ↑ Aharon, M, M Elad, and A Bruckstein. 2006. ""K-SVD: An Algorithm for Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries for Sparse Representation."" Signal Processing, IEEE Transactions on 54 (11): 4311–4322 ↑ Goldberg, David E.; Holland, John H. (1988). ""Genetic algorithms and machine learning"". Machine Learning. 3 (2): 95–99. doi:10.1007/bf00113892.  ↑ Michie, D.; Spiegelhalter, D. J.; Taylor, C. C. (1994). Machine Learning, Neural and Statistical Classification. Ellis Horwood.  ↑ Zhang, Jun; Zhan, Zhi-hui; Lin, Ying; Chen, Ni; Gong, Yue-jiao; Zhong, Jing-hui; Chung, Henry S.H.; Li, Yun; Shi, Yu-hui (2011). ""Evolutionary Computation Meets Machine Learning: A Survey"" (PDF). Computational Intelligence Magazine. IEEE. 6 (4): 68–75. doi:10.1109/mci.2011.942584.  ↑ Bassel, George W.; Glaab, Enrico; Marquez, Julietta; Holdsworth, Michael J.; Bacardit, Jaume (2011-09-01). ""Functional Network Construction in Arabidopsis Using Rule-Based Machine Learning on Large-Scale Data Sets"". The Plant Cell. 23 (9): 3101–3116. doi:10.1105/tpc.111.088153. ISSN 1532-298X. PMC 3203449 . PMID 21896882.  ↑ Urbanowicz, Ryan J.; Moore, Jason H. (2009-09-22). ""Learning Classifier Systems: A Complete Introduction, Review, and Roadmap"". Journal of Artificial Evolution and Applications. 2009: 1–25. doi:10.1155/2009/736398. ISSN 1687-6229.  ↑ Bridge, James P., Sean B. Holden, and Lawrence C. Paulson. ""Machine learning for first-order theorem proving."" Journal of automated reasoning 53.2 (2014): 141–172. ↑ Loos, Sarah, et al. ""Deep Network Guided Proof Search."" arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.06972 (2017). ↑ Finnsson, Hilmar, and Yngvi Björnsson. ""Simulation-Based Approach to General Game Playing."" AAAI. Vol. 8. 2008. ↑ Sarikaya, Ruhi, Geoffrey E. Hinton, and Anoop Deoras. ""Application of deep belief networks for natural language understanding."" IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing (TASLP) 22.4 (2014): 778–784. ↑ ""AI-based translation to soon reach human levels: industry officials"". Yonhap news agency. Retrieved 4 Mar 2017.  ↑ ""BelKor Home Page"" research.att.com ↑ ""The Netflix Tech Blog: Netflix Recommendations: Beyond the 5 stars (Part 1)"". Retrieved 8 August 2015.  ↑ Scott Patterson (13 July 2010). ""Letting the Machines Decide"". WSJ. Retrieved 24 June 2018.  ↑ Vonod Khosla (January 10, 2012). ""Do We Need Doctors or Algorithms?"". Tech Crunch.  ↑ When A Machine Learning Algorithm Studied Fine Art Paintings, It Saw Things Art Historians Had Never Noticed, The Physics at ArXiv blog ↑ ""Why Machine Learning Models Often Fail to Learn: QuickTake Q&A"". Bloomberg.com. 2016-11-10. Retrieved 2017-04-10.  ↑ Simonite, Tom. ""Microsoft says its racist chatbot illustrates how AI isn't adaptable enough to help most businesses"". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 2017-04-10.  ↑ Kohavi, Ron (1995). ""A Study of Cross-Validation and Bootstrap for Accuracy Estimation and Model Selection"" (PDF). International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.  ↑ Pontius, Robert Gilmore; Si, Kangping (2014). ""The total operating characteristic to measure diagnostic ability for multiple thresholds"". International Journal of Geographical Information Science. 28 (3): 570–583. doi:10.1080/13658816.2013.862623.  ↑ Bostrom, Nick (2011). ""The Ethics of Artificial Intelligence"" (PDF). Retrieved 11 April 2016.  ↑ Edionwe, Tolulope. ""The fight against racist algorithms"". The Outline. Retrieved 17 November 2017.  ↑ Jeffries, Adrianne. ""Machine learning is racist because the internet is racist"". The Outline. Retrieved 17 November 2017.  ↑ Narayanan, Arvind (August 24, 2016). ""Language necessarily contains human biases, and so will machines trained on language corpora"". Freedom to Tinker.  ↑ Char, D. S.; Shah, N. H.; Magnus, D. (2018). ""Implementing Machine Learning in Health Care – Addressing Ethical Challenges"". New England Journal of Medicine. 378 (11): 981–983. doi:10.1056/nejmp1714229. PMID 29539284. "
"Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence in the field of computer science that often uses statistical techniques to give computers the ability to ""learn"" (i.e., progressively improve performance on a specific task) with data, without being explicitly programmed.[1]"
"The name machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel.[2] Evolved from the study of pattern recognition and computational learning theory in artificial intelligence,[3] machine learning explores the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data[4] – such algorithms overcome following strictly static program instructions by making data-driven predictions or decisions,[5]:2 through building a model from sample inputs. Machine learning is employed in a range of computing tasks where designing and programming explicit algorithms with good performance is difficult or infeasible; example applications include email filtering, detection of network intruders or malicious insiders working towards a data breach,[6] optical character recognition (OCR),[7] learning to rank, and computer vision."
"Machine learning tasks are typically classified into two broad categories, depending on whether there is a learning ""signal"" or ""feedback"" available to a learning system:"
"Deep learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks and recurrent neural networks have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, audio recognition, social network filtering, machine translation, bioinformatics, drug design and board game programs, where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases superior to human experts.[4][5][6]"
Definition
The Swedish era
Sources
The tunnels at Suomenlinna
City map of Suomenlinna
"Suomenlinna Sveaborg An aerial view of Suomenlinna. Location Helsinki, Finland Coordinates 60°08′37″N 24°59′04″E﻿ / ﻿60.14361°N 24.98444°E﻿ / 60.14361; 24.98444Coordinates: 60°08′37″N 24°59′04″E﻿ / ﻿60.14361°N 24.98444°E﻿ / 60.14361; 24.98444 UNESCO World Heritage Site Official name: Fortress of Suomenlinna Type Cultural Criteria iv Designated 1991 (15th session) Reference no. 583 State Party Finland Region Europe and North America"
"Suomenlinna (Finnish; until 1918 Viapori), or Sveaborg (Swedish), literal translation Castle of Finland, is an inhabited sea fortress built on six islands (Kustaanmiekka (sv:Vargskär / Gustavssvärd), Susisaari (sv:Vargö), Iso-Mustasaari (sv:Stora Östersvartö), Pikku-Mustasaari (sv:Lilla Östersvartö), Länsi-Mustasaari (sv:Västersvartö), and Långören) and which now forms part of the city of Helsinki, the capital of Finland."
"Suomenlinna is a UNESCO World Heritage site and popular with tourists and locals, who enjoy it as a picturesque picnic site. Originally named Sveaborg (Fortress of Svea), or Viapori as called by Finnish-speaking Finns, it was renamed in Finnish to Suomenlinna (Castle of Finland) in 1918 for patriotic and nationalistic reasons, though it is still known by its original name in Sweden and by Swedish-speaking Finns."
Augustin Ehrensvärd's grave at Suomenlinna
View from Länsi-Mustasaari to Pikku-Mustasaari
Guns of Suomenlinna
Suomenlinna
"A pojama flying the blue naval ensign of the Swedish archipelago fleet in Artilleriviken (Tykistölahti); painting by Adolf Geete, 1760."
Russian 6 inch 35 caliber naval gun 1877
M/S Mariella passing through the Kustaanmiekka strait after leaving Helsinki for Stockholm
"The Suomenlinna prison, Helsinki, Finland"
"Suomenlinna, entrance to the tunnel from island side"
"The 2018 Kerala floods are a result of the unusually high amount of rainfall during the August 2018 monsoon season. More than 106 people have been killed as a result of the flood, with 85,000 people displaced and 14 districts placed on high alert.[1][2] They are the worst floods in the state of Kerala in nearly a century.[3]"
"35 out of 42 dams in the state were opened for the first time in history and all five gates of one of Asia's highest arch dam, the Idukki Dam were opened at the same time for the first time.[4] Heavy rain in Wayanad has left the hilly district isolated.[5]"
"A stock market, equity market or share market is the aggregation of buyers and sellers (a loose network of economic transactions, not a physical facility or discrete entity) of stocks (also called shares), which represent ownership claims on businesses; these may include securities listed on a public stock exchange as well as those only traded privately. Examples of the latter include shares of private companies which are sold to investors through equity crowdfunding platforms. Stock exchanges list shares of common equity as well as other security types, e.g. corporate bonds and convertible bonds."
Stock market
An uncooked rib roast
Wagyu cattle are an example of a breed raised primarily for beef.
Beef as part of a meal with potatoes and spinach
"Beef is the culinary name for meat from cattle, particularly skeletal muscle. Humans have been eating beef since prehistoric times.[1] Beef is a source of high-quality protein and nutrients.[2]"
"Beef skeletal muscle meat can be used as is by merely cutting into certain parts roasts, short ribs or steak (filet mignon, sirloin steak, rump steak, rib steak, rib eye steak, hanger steak, etc.), while other cuts are processed (corned beef or beef jerky). Trimmings, on the other hand, are usually mixed with meat from older, leaner (therefore tougher) cattle, are ground, minced or used in sausages. The blood is used in some varieties called blood sausage. Other parts that are eaten include other muscles and offal, such as the oxtail, liver, tongue, tripe from the reticulum or rumen, glands (particularly the pancreas and thymus, referred to as sweetbread), the heart, the brain (although forbidden where there is a danger of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, BSE, commonly referred to as mad cow disease), the kidneys, and the tender testicles of the bull (known in the United States as calf fries, prairie oysters, or Rocky Mountain oysters). Some intestines are cooked and eaten as is[3], but are more often cleaned and used as natural sausage casings. The bones are used for making beef stock."
"Beef from steers and heifers is similar.[4] Depending on economics, the number of heifers kept for breeding varies. The meat from older bulls, because it is usually tougher, is frequently used for mince (known as ground beef in the United States). Cattle raised for beef may be allowed to roam free on grasslands, or may be confined at some stage in pens as part of a large feeding operation called a feedlot (or concentrated animal feeding operation), where they are usually fed a ration of grain, protein, roughage and a vitamin/mineral preblend."
Cows are considered sacred in the Hinduism and most observant Hindus who do eat meat almost always abstain from beef.
"In 2015, the world's largest exporters of beef were India, Brazil and Australia.[6][7] Beef production is also important to the economies of Uruguay, Canada, Paraguay, Mexico, Argentina, Belarus and Nicaragua."
Procession in Bangalore during the Quit India Movement
Battlefield
"""Booknotes: Watch"". Booknotes. 12 January 2003. Archived from the original on 16 November 2010.  Interview with Andrew Roberts on Napoleon & Wellington: The Battle of Waterloo and the Great Commanders Who Fought It ""Guides 1815"" (in French).  Official guides of the Waterloo battlefield. ""Waterloo 200"". National Army Museum, London. 10 June 2015.  (British site) ""Farm of Hougoumont"". Archaeology @ Waterloo. Retrieved 30 July 2015.  George Nafgizer collection Waterloo ORBATs for French, Allied."
"The Battle of Waterloo was fought on Sunday, 18 June 1815, near Waterloo in present-day Belgium, then part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. A French army under the command of Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte was defeated by two of the armies of the Seventh Coalition: a British-led Allied army under the command of the Duke of Wellington, and a Prussian army under the command of Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher, Prince of Wahlstatt. The battle marked the end of the Napoleonic Wars."
A view of the battlefield from the Lion's mound. On the top right are the buildings of La Haye Sainte.
A panorama of the Waterloo battlefield in 2012
Variants
General references
Criticism of the term
"LGBT, or GLBT, is an initialism that stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender. In use since the 1990s, the term is an adaptation of the initialism LGB, which was used to replace the term gay in reference to the LGBT community beginning in the mid-to-late 1980s.[1] Activists believed that the term gay community did not accurately represent all those to whom it referred."
"The initialism LGBT is intended to emphasize a diversity of sexuality and gender identity-based cultures. It may be used to refer to anyone who is non-heterosexual or non-cisgender, instead of exclusively to people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender.[4]"
Pos Team Pld W D L GF GA GD Pts Qualification 1  Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Quarterfinals 2  Germany 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crossover 3  Malaysia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4  Pakistan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Eliminated
Pos Team Pld W D L GF GA GD Pts Qualification 1  Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Quarterfinals 2  New Zealand 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crossover 3  Spain 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4  France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Eliminated
Pool B
Results
Format
Pos Team Pld W D L GF GA GD Pts Qualification 1  Australia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Quarterfinals 2  England 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crossover 3  Ireland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4  China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Eliminated
First round
Pos Team Pld W D L GF GA GD Pts Qualification 1  Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Quarterfinals 2  India (H) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crossover 3  Canada 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4  South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Eliminated
Pool D
Pool C
Pool A
"The 2018 Men's Hockey World Cup will be the 14th edition of the Hockey World Cup field hockey tournament. It is scheduled to be held from 28 November to 16 December 2018, at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar, India.[1]"
Trophy of Hockey World Cup 2018 displayed at Odisha State Secretariat.
Olly: Mascot of the 2018 hockey World Cup with Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik
"The 16 teams were drawn into four groups, each containing four teams. Each team plays each other team in its group once. The first-placed team in each group advances to the quarter-finals, while the second- and third-placed teams in each group go into the crossover matches. From there on a single-elimination tournament will be played."
The schedule was published on 27 February 2018.[8]
External links
A 3D ultrasound of a human fetus aged 20 weeks
"3D ultrasound is a medical ultrasound technique, often used in fetal, cardiac, trans-rectal and intra-vascular applications. 3D ultrasound refers specifically to the volume rendering of ultrasound data and is also referred to as 4D (3-spatial dimensions plus 1-time dimension) when it involves a series of 3D volumes collected over time."
"When generating a 3D volume the ultrasound data can be collected in 4 common ways. Freehand, which involves tilting the probe and capturing a series of ultrasound images and recording the transducer orientation for each slice. Mechanically, where the internal linear probe tilt is handled by a motor inside the probe. Using an endoprobe, which generates the volume by inserting a probe and then removing the transducer in a controlled manner. The fourth technology is the matrix array transducer that uses beamsteering to sample points throughout a pyramid shaped volume.[1]"
"1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ""Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment"". National Cancer Institute. 8 December 2017. Retrieved 20 December 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Hunger, Stephen P.; Mullighan, Charles G. (2015-10-14). ""Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Children"". New England Journal of Medicine. 373 (16): 1541–1552. doi:10.1056/nejmra1400972. PMID 26465987..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Ferri, Fred F. (2017). Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018 E-Book: 5 Books in 1. Elsevier Health Sciences. p. 743. ISBN 9780323529570..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Inaba H, Greaves M, Mullighan CG (June 2013). ""Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia"". Lancet. 381 (9881): 1943–55. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(12)62187-4. PMC 3816716. PMID 23523389..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 Baljevic, Muhamed; Jabbour, Elias; O'Brien, Susan; Kantarjian, Hagop M (2016). ""Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". In Kantarjian, HM; Wolff, RA. The MD Anderson Manual of Medical Oncology (3 ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill Education. Retrieved 22 November 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Vora, Ajay (editor). Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing. 2017. pp. 1–44, 61–86. ISBN 9783319397078. OCLC 984342596..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 Paul, Shilpa; Kantarjian, Hagop; Jabbour, Elias J. (2016). ""Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". Mayo Clinic Proceedings. 91 (11): 1645–1666. doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2016.09.010..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Boer, JM; den Boer, ML (11 July 2017). ""BCR-ABL1-like acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: From bench to bedside"". European Journal of Cancer. 82: 203–218. doi:10.1016/j.ejca.2017.06.012. PMID 28709134..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 GBD 2015 Mortality and Causes of Death, Collaborators. (8 October 2016). ""Global, regional, and national life expectancy, all-cause mortality, and cause-specific mortality for 249 causes of death, 1980-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015"". Lancet. 388 (10053): 1459–1544. doi:10.1016/s0140-6736(16)31012-1. PMC 5388903. PMID 27733281..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Marino, Bradley S.; Fine, Katie S. (2013). Blueprints Pediatrics. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. p. 205. ISBN 9781451116045..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 GBD 2015 Disease and Injury Incidence and Prevalence, Collaborators. (8 October 2016). ""Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 310 diseases and injuries, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015"". Lancet. 388 (10053): 1545–1602. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31678-6. PMC 5055577. PMID 27733282..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia - Cancer Stat Facts"". SEER. Retrieved 20 December 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Tubergen, DG; Bleyer, A; Ritchey, AK (2011). ""Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". In Kliegman, RM; Stanton, BMD; St Geme, J; Schor, NF; Behrman, RE. Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics (19th ed.). Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier/Saunders. pp. 1732–1737. ISBN 1437707556. OCLC 706780860..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Brown, Patrick (2013-12-06). ""Treatment of infant leukemias: challenge and promise"". ASH Education Program Book. 2013 (1): 596–600. doi:10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.596. ISSN 1520-4391. PMC 4729208. PMID 24319237..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Clarke, Rachel T.; Bruel, Ann Van den; Bankhead, Clare; Mitchell, Christopher D.; Phillips, Bob; Thompson, Matthew J. (2016-10-01). ""Clinical presentation of childhood leukaemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis"". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 101 (10): 894–901. doi:10.1136/archdischild-2016-311251. ISSN 0003-9888. PMID 27647842..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Cortes, J. (February 2001). ""Central nervous system involvement in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia"". Hematology/Oncology Clinics of North America. 15 (1): 145–162. doi:10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70203-3. ISSN 0889-8588. PMID 11253605..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 Seiter, K (5 February 2014). Sarkodee-Adoo, C; Talavera, F; Sacher, RA; Besa, EC, eds. ""Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". Medscape Reference. WebMD. Archived from the original on 18 April 2014. Retrieved 17 April 2014..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bleyer, W. A. (August 1988). ""Central nervous system leukemia"". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 35 (4): 789–814. doi:10.1016/s0031-3955(16)36510-5. ISSN 0031-3955. PMID 3047654..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ingram, L. C.; Fairclough, D. L.; Furman, W. L.; Sandlund, J. T.; Kun, L. E.; Rivera, G. K.; Pui, C. H. (1991-05-01). ""Cranial nerve palsy in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma"". Cancer. 67 (9): 2262–2268. doi:10.1002/1097-0142(19910501)67:9<2262::aid-cncr2820670909>3.0.co;2-u. ISSN 0008-543X. PMID 2013032..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Terwilliger, T; Abdul-Hay, M (June 2017). ""Acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a comprehensive review and 2017 update"". Blood Cancer Journal. 7 (6): e577. doi:10.1038/bcj.2017.53. ISSN 2044-5385..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Meyer, C; Hofmann, J; Burmeister, T; Gröger, D; Park, T S; Emerenciano, M; Oliveira, M Pombo de; Renneville, A; Villarese, P (2013). ""The MLL recombinome of acute leukemias in 2013"". Leukemia. 27 (11): 2165–2176. doi:10.1038/leu.2013.135. ISSN 1476-5551. PMC 3826032..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Benedikt, A; Baltruschat, S; Scholz, B; Bursen, A; Arrey, T N; Meyer, B; Varagnolo, L; Müller, A M; Karas, M (2011). ""The leukemogenic AF4–MLL fusion protein causes P-TEFb kinase activation and altered epigenetic signatures"". Leukemia. 25 (1): 135–144. doi:10.1038/leu.2010.249. ISSN 1476-5551..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Preston, D. L.; Kusumi, S.; Tomonaga, M.; Izumi, S.; Ron, E.; Kuramoto, A.; Kamada, N.; Dohy, H.; Matsuo, T. (1 February 1994). ""Cancer incidence in atomic bomb survivors. Part III. Leukemia, lymphoma and multiple myeloma, 1950–1987"". Radiation Research. 137 (2 Suppl): S68–97. doi:10.2307/3578893. ISSN 0033-7587. PMID 8127953..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Smith MA, Rubinstein L, Anderson JR, et al. (Feb 1999). ""Secondary Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome After Treatment With Epipodophyllotoxins"" (PDF). Journal of Clinical Oncology. American Society for Clinical Oncology. 17 (2): 569–77. PMID 10080601. Archived from the original on 22 August 2009..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Collier, J.A.B (1991). Oxford Handbook of Clinical Specialties, Third Edition. Oxford. p. 810. ISBN 0-19-262116-5..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Longo, D (2011). ""Chapter 110: Malignancies of Lymphoid Cells"". Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine (18 ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill Professional. ISBN 978-0-07-174889-6..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rytting, ME, ed. (November 2013). ""Acute Leukemia"". Merck Manual Professional. Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014. Retrieved 17 April 2014..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 V.,, Hoffbrand, A. Hoffbrand's essential haematology. Moss, P. A. H., (Seventh ed.). Chichester, West Sussex. ISBN 9781118408636. OCLC 910009732..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bhojwani, Deepa; Pei, Deqing; Sandlund, John T.; Jeha, Sima; Ribeiro, Raul C.; Rubnitz, Jeffrey E.; Raimondi, Susana C.; Shurtleff, Sheila; Onciu, Mihaela (February 2012). ""ETV6-RUNX1-positive childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: improved outcome with contemporary therapy"". Leukemia. 26 (2): 265–270. doi:10.1038/leu.2011.227. ISSN 0887-6924. PMC 3345278. PMID 21869842..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Stams WA, den Boer ML, Beverloo HB, Meijerink JP, van Wering ER, Janka-Schaub GE, Pieters R (April 2005). ""Expression levels of TEL, AML1, and the fusion products TEL-AML1 and AML1-TEL versus drug sensitivity and clinical outcome in t(12;21)-positive pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia"". Clin. Cancer Res. 11 (8): 2974–80. doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-1829. PMID 15837750..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Pakakasama S, Kajanachumpol S, Kanjanapongkul S, et al. (August 2008). ""Simple multiplex RT-PCR for identifying common fusion transcripts in childhood acute leukemia"". Int J Lab Hematol. 30 (4): 286–91. doi:10.1111/j.1751-553X.2007.00954.x. PMID 18665825..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ McWhirter JR, Neuteboom ST, Wancewicz EV, et al. (September 1999). ""Oncogenic homeodomain transcription factor E2A-Pbx1 activates a novel WNT gene in pre-B acute lymphoblastoid leukemia"". Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96 (20): 11464–9. doi:10.1073/pnas.96.20.11464. PMC 18056. PMID 10500199..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rudolph C, Hegazy AN, von Neuhoff N, et al. (August 2005). ""Cytogenetic characterization of a BCR-ABL transduced mouse cell line"". Cancer Genet. Cytogenet. 161 (1): 51–6. doi:10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2004.12.021. PMID 16080957..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Caslini C, Serna A, Rossi V, et al. (June 2004). ""Modulation of cell cycle by graded expression of MLL-AF4 fusion oncoprotein"". Leukemia. 18 (6): 1064–71. doi:10.1038/sj.leu.2403321. PMID 14990976..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Martín-Subero JI, Odero MD, Hernandez R, Cigudosa JC, Agirre X, Saez B, Sanz-García E, Ardanaz MT, Novo FJ, Gascoyne RD, Calasanz MJ, Siebert R (August 2005). ""Amplification of IGH/MYC fusion in clinically aggressive IGH/BCL2-positive germinal center B-cell lymphomas"". Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 43 (4): 414–23. doi:10.1002/gcc.20187. PMID 15852472..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Zalcberg IQ, Silva ML, Abdelhay E, et al. (October 1995). ""Translocation 11;14 in three children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia of T-cell origin"". Cancer Genet. Cytogenet. 84 (1): 32–8. doi:10.1016/0165-4608(95)00062-3. PMID 7497440..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bennett, J. M.; Catovsky, D.; Daniel, M. T.; Flandrin, G.; Galton, D. A.; Gralnick, H. R.; Sultan, C. (August 1976). ""Proposals for the classification of the acute leukaemias. French-American-British (FAB) co-operative group"". British Journal of Haematology. 33 (4): 451–458. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2141.1976.tb03563.x. ISSN 0007-1048. PMID 188440..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""ACS :: How Is Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia Classified?"". Archived from the original on 23 March 2008..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ DeAngelo DJ, Pui C. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma. Chapter 19 of American Society of Hematology Self-Assessment Program. 2013. ISBN 9780982843512 1 2 Orkin, S. H.; Nathan, D. G.; Ginsburg, D.; et al. (2014). Nathan and Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood (8th ed.). Saunders. ISBN 978-1-4557-5414-4..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Arber, Daniel A.; Orazi, Attilio; Hasserjian, Robert; Thiele, Jürgen; Borowitz, Michael J.; Beau, Michelle M. Le; Bloomfield, Clara D.; Cazzola, Mario; Vardiman, James W. (2016-05-19). ""The 2016 revision to the World Health Organization classification of myeloid neoplasms and acute leukemia"". Blood. 127 (20): 2391–2405. doi:10.1182/blood-2016-03-643544. ISSN 0006-4971. PMID 27069254..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) Information – Mount Sinai – New York"". Mount Sinai Health System. Archived from the original on 3 August 2016. Retrieved 18 November 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Hoffbrand, Victor; Moss, Paul; Pettit, John (31 October 2006). Essential Haematology. Wiley. pp. 192–196. ISBN 978-1-4051-3649-5. Archived from the original on 21 March 2015. Retrieved 14 September 2013..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 ""Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment"". National Cancer Institute. Retrieved 2017-12-06..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Jabbour E, Thomas D, Cortes J, et al. (15 May 2010). ""Central nervous system prophylaxis in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: current and emerging therapies"". Cancer. 116 (10): 2290–300. doi:10.1002/cncr.25008. PMID 20209620..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ M. Yanada (2015). ""Time to tune the treatment of Ph+ ALL"". Blood. 125 (24): 3674–5. doi:10.1182/blood-2015-04-641704. PMID 26069331..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Seiter K, Harris JE. Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment Protocols. emedicine; Medscape. ""Archived copy"". Archived from the original on 1 September 2015. Retrieved 16 August 2015.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 V.,, Hoffbrand, A. Hoffbrand's essential haematology. Moss, P. A. H., (Seventh ed.). Chichester, West Sussex. ISBN 9781118408674. OCLC 909538759..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Paul, Shilpa; Kantarjian, Hagop; Jabbour, Elias J. (2016). ""Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". Mayo Clinic Proceedings. 91 (11): 1645–1666. doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2016.09.010..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Lambrou GI, Papadimitriou L, Chrousos GP, Vlahopoulos SA (January 2012). ""Glucocorticoid and proteasome inhibitor impact on the leukemic lymphoblast: multiple, diverse signals converging on a few key downstream regulators"". Mol Cell Endocrinol. 351 (2): 142–51. doi:10.1016/j.mce.2012.01.003. PMID 22273806..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Grupp SA, Kalos M, Barrett D, et al. (2013). ""Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for acute lymphoid leukemia"". N. Engl. J. Med. 368 (16): 1509–18. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1215134. PMC 4058440. PMID 23527958..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Barrett DM, Singh N, Porter DL, et al. (2014). ""Chimeric antigen receptor therapy for cancer"". Annu. Rev. Med. 65: 333–47. doi:10.1146/annurev-med-060512-150254. PMC 4120077. PMID 24274181..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Alonso-Camino V, Sánchez-Martín D, Compte M, et al. (2013). ""CARbodies: Human Antibodies Against Cell Surface Tumor Antigens Selected From Repertoires Displayed on T Cell Chimeric Antigen Receptors"". Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2: e93. doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.19. PMC 4817937. PMID 23695536..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Zufferey R, Dull T, Mandel RJ, et al. (1998). ""Self-inactivating lentivirus vector for safe and efficient in vivo gene delivery"". J. Virol. 72 (12): 9873–80. PMC 110499. PMID 9811723..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Commissioner, Office of the. ""Press Announcements—FDA approval brings first gene therapy to the United States"". www.fda.gov. Archived from the original on 3 September 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ledford, Heidi (12 July 2017). ""Engineered cell therapy for cancer gets thumbs up from FDA advisers"". Nature. doi:10.1038/nature.2017.22304..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Kantarjian, Hagop; Stein, Anthony; Gökbuget, Nicola; Fielding, Adele K.; Schuh, Andre C.; Ribera, Josep-Maria; Wei, Andrew; Dombret, Hervé; Foà, Robin (2017-03-01). ""Blinatumomab versus Chemotherapy for Advanced Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"". New England Journal of Medicine. 376 (9): 836–847. doi:10.1056/nejmoa1609783..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Hutter, John J. (2010-06-01). ""Childhood Leukemia"". Pediatrics in Review. 31 (6): 234–241. doi:10.1542/pir.31-6-234. ISSN 0191-9601. PMID 20516235..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Prognosis and survival for acute lymphocytic leukemia - Canadian Cance"". www.cancer.ca. Retrieved 2017-12-06..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics By Karen Marcdante, Robert M. Kliegman, Richard E. Behrman, Hal B. Jenson p597 ↑ The Guide Paediatrics. ISBN 978-978-917-9909. p51 ↑ V.,, Hoffbrand, A. Hoffbrand's essential haematology. Moss, P. A. H., (Seventh ed.). Chichester, West Sussex. p. 194. ISBN 9781118408674. OCLC 909538759..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Moorman AV, Harrison CJ, Buck GA, et al. (15 April 2007). ""Karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL): analysis of cytogenetic data from patients treated on the Medical Research Council (MRC) UKALLXII/Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 2993 trial"". Blood. 109 (8): 3189–3197. doi:10.1182/blood-2006-10-051912. PMID 17170120..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Den Boer ML, van Slegtenhorst M, De Menezes RX, et al. (January 2009). ""A subtype of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with poor treatment outcome: a genome-wide classification study"". Lancet Oncol. 10 (2): 125–34. doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(08)70339-5. PMC 2707020. PMID 19138562..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Guo LM, Xi JS, Ma Y, et al. (2014). ""ARID5B gene rs10821936 polymorphism is associated with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a meta-analysis based on 39,116 subjects"". Tumour Biol. 35 (1): 709–13. doi:10.1007/s13277-013-1097-0. PMID 23975371..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Greer, J. P.; Arber, D. A.; Glader, B.; et al. (2013). Wintrobe's Clinical Hematology (13th ed.). Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. ISBN 978-1-4511-7268-3..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ K. Y. Urayama; A. Manabe (2014). ""Genomic evaluations of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia susceptibility across race/ethnicities"". Rinsho Ketsueki. 55 (10): 2242–8. PMID 25297793..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ries, LAG; Smith, MA; Gurney, JG; Linet, M; Tamra, T; Young, JL; Bunin, GR (1999). Cancer Incidence and Survival among Children and Adolescents: United States SEER Program 1975-1995. Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute, SEER Program..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Shapira T, Pereg D, Lishner M (September 2008). ""How I treat acute and chronic leukemia in pregnancy"". Blood Rev. 22 (5): 247–59. doi:10.1016/j.blre.2008.03.006. PMID 18472198..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a cancer of the lymphoid line of blood cells characterized by the development of large numbers of immature lymphocytes.[1] Symptoms may include feeling tired, pale skin color, fever, easy bleeding or bruising, enlarged lymph nodes, or bone pain.[1] As an acute leukemia, ALL progresses rapidly and is typically fatal within weeks or months if left untreated.[10]"
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia
Signs and symptoms
"↑ O'Brien, Susan; Gribben, John G. (2008). Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. CRC Press. p. 19. ISBN 9781420068962..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Treatment"". National Cancer Institute. 26 October 2017. Retrieved 19 December 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia - Cancer Stat Facts"". seer.cancer.gov. Retrieved 20 December 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Kipps, Thomas J.; Stevenson, Freda K.; Wu, Catherine J.; Croce, Carlo M.; Packham, Graham; Wierda, William G.; O'Brien, Susan; Gribben, John; Rai, Kanti (2017-01-19). ""Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia"". Nature Reviews Disease Primers. 3: 16096. doi:10.1038/nrdp.2016.96. ISSN 2056-676X. PMC 5336551. PMID 28102226..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 Ferri, Fred F. (2017). Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018 E-Book: 5 Books in 1. Elsevier Health Sciences. p. 750. ISBN 9780323529570..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 GBD 2015 Disease and Injury Incidence and Prevalence, Collaborators. (8 October 2016). ""Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 310 diseases and injuries, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015"". Lancet. 388 (10053): 1545–1602. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31678-6. PMC 5055577. PMID 27733282..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 GBD 2015 Mortality and Causes of Death, Collaborators. (8 October 2016). ""Global, regional, and national life expectancy, all-cause mortality, and cause-specific mortality for 249 causes of death, 1980-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015"". Lancet. 388 (10053): 1459–1544. doi:10.1016/s0140-6736(16)31012-1. PMC 5388903. PMID 27733281..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Hallek, M (September 2017). ""Chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 2017 update on diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment"". American journal of hematology. 92 (9): 946–965. doi:10.1002/ajh.24826. PMID 28782884..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Tsimberidou AM, Keating MJ (January 2005). ""Richter syndrome: biology, incidence, and therapeutic strategies"". Cancer. 103 (2): 216–28. doi:10.1002/cncr.20773. PMID 15578683.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bitetto AM, Lamba G, Cadavid G, Shah D, Forlenza T, Rotatori F, Rafiyath SM. Colonic perforation secondary to chronic lymphocytic leukemia infiltration without Richter transformation. Leuk Lymphoma. 2011 May;52(5):930-3. ↑ Kipps, TJ; Stevenson, FK; Wu, CJ; Croce, CM; Packham, G; Wierda, WG; O'Brien, S; Gribben, J; Rai, K (19 January 2017). ""Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia"". Nature Reviews. Disease Primers. 3: 16096. doi:10.1038/nrdp.2016.96. PMC 5336551. PMID 28102226..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Greer, John P.; Arber, Daniel A.; Glader, Bertil; List, Alan F.; Means Jr., Robert T.; Paraskevas, Frixos; Rodgers, George M.; Foerster, John, eds. (2014). Wintrobe's clinical hematology (Thirteenth ed.). Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. ISBN 1451172680..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bain, Barbara J. (2006). Blood Cells: A Practical Guide. Blackwell Publishing Limited. p. 439. ISBN 1-4051-4265-0..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Matutes E, Owusu-Ankomah K, Morilla R, Garcia Marco J, Houlihan A, Que TH, Catovsky D (1994). ""The immunological profile of B-cell disorders and proposal of a scoring system for the diagnosis of CLL"". Leukemia. 8 (10): 1640–5. PMID 7523797.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Deans JP, Polyak MJ (2008). ""FMC7 is an epitope of CD20"". Blood. 111 (4): 2492, author reply 2493–4. doi:10.1182/blood-2007-11-126243. PMID 18263793.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Palumbo GA, Parrinello N, Fargione G, Cardillo K, Chiarenza A, Berretta S, Conticello C, Villari L, Di Raimondo F (2009). ""CD200 expression may help in differential diagnosis between mantle cell lymphoma and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Leuk. Res. 33 (9): 1212–6. doi:10.1016/j.leukres.2009.01.017. PMID 19230971.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Zare H, Bashashati A, Kridel R, Aghaeepour N, Haffari G, Connors JM, Gascoyne RD, Gupta A, Brinkman RR, Weng AP (2012). ""Automated analysis of multidimensional flow cytometry data improves diagnostic accuracy between mantle cell lymphoma and small lymphocytic lymphoma"". Am. J. Clin. Pathol. 137 (1): 75–85. doi:10.1309/AJCPMMLQ67YOMGEW. PMC 4090220. PMID 22180480.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 National Cancer Institute. ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (PDQ) Treatment: Stage Information"". Archived from the original on 17 October 2007. Retrieved 2007-09-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 Kaushansky, K; Lichtman, M; Beutler, E; Kipps, T; Prchal, J; Seligsohn, U. (2010). Williams Hematology (8th ed.). McGraw-Hill. ISBN 978-0071621519..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Gale, Robert Peter; Rai, Kanti R., eds. (1987). Chronic lymphocytic leukemia : recent progress, future direction : proceedings of a Hyland Laboratories-UCLA symposium held in Napa, California, December 2–5, 1986. New York: Liss. ISBN 9780845126585..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rai KR, Sawitsky A, Cronkite EP, Chanana AD, Levy RN, Pasternack BS (Aug 1975). ""Clinical staging of chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 46 (2): 219–34. PMID 1139039.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Binet JL, Auquier A, Dighiero G, Chastang C, Piguet H, Goasguen J, Vaugier G, Potron G, Colona P, Oberling F, Thomas M, Tchernia G, Jacquillat C, Boivin P, Lesty C, Duault MT, Monconduit M, Belabbes S, Gremy F (Jul 1, 1981). ""A new prognostic classification of chronic lymphocytic leukemia derived from a multivariate survival analysis"". Cancer. 48 (1): 198–206. doi:10.1002/1097-0142(19810701)48:1<198::aid-cncr2820480131>3.0.co;2-v. PMID 7237385.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rosenwald A, Alizadeh AA, Widhopf G, Simon R, Davis RE, Yu X, Yang L, Pickeral OK, Rassenti LZ, Powell J, Botstein D, Byrd JC, Grever MR, Cheson BD, Chiorazzi N, Wilson WH, Kipps TJ, Brown PO, Staudt LM (2001). ""Relation of gene expression phenotype to immunoglobulin mutation genotype in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". J. Exp. Med. 194 (11): 1639–47. doi:10.1084/jem.194.11.1639. PMC 2193523. PMID 11733578.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ghia P, Guida G, Stella S, Gottardi D, Geuna M, Strola G, Scielzo C, Caligaris-Cappio F (2003). ""The pattern of CD38 expression defines a distinct subset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients at risk of disease progression"". Blood. 101 (4): 1262–9. doi:10.1182/blood-2002-06-1801. PMID 12406914.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 Shanafelt TD, Byrd JC, Call TG, Zent CS, Kay NE (2006). ""Narrative review: initial management of newly diagnosed, early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Ann. Intern. Med. 145 (6): 435–47. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-145-6-200609190-00007. PMID 16983131.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Hamblin TJ, Davis Z, Gardiner A, Oscier DG, Stevenson FK (1999). ""Unmutated Ig V(H) genes are associated with a more aggressive form of chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 94 (6): 1848–54. PMID 10477713.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Tobin G, Thunberg U, Johnson A, Thörn I, Söderberg O, Hultdin M, Botling J, Enblad G, Sällström J, Sundström C, Roos G, Rosenquist R (2002). ""Somatically mutated Ig V(H)3–21 genes characterize a new subset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 99 (6): 2262–2264. doi:10.1182/blood.V99.6.2262. PMID 11877310.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Seda, V; Mraz, M (2015). ""B-cell receptor signalling and its crosstalk with other pathways in normal and malignant cells"". European Journal of Haematology. 94 (3): 193–205. doi:10.1111/ejh.12427. PMID 25080849..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Mraz M, Dolezalova D, Plevova K, Stano Kozubik K, Mayerova V, Cerna K, Musilova K, Tichy B, Pavlova S, Borsky M, Verner J, Doubek M, Brychtova Y, Trbusek M, Hampl A, Mayer J, Pospisilova S (2012). ""MicroRNA-650 expression is influenced by immunoglobulin gene rearrangement and affects the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 119 (9): 2110–2113. doi:10.1182/blood-2011-11-394874. PMID 22234685.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Mraz, M.; Stano Kozubik, K.; Plevova, K.; Musilova, K.; Tichy, B.; Borsky, M.; Kuglik, P.; Doubek, M.; Brychtova, Y.; Mayer, J.; Pospisilova, S. (2013). ""The origin of deletion 22q11 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia is related to the rearrangement of immunoglobulin lambda light chain locus"". Leukemia Research. 37 (7): 802–808. doi:10.1016/j.leukres.2013.03.018. PMID 23608880..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Mraz M, Malinova K, Kotaskova J, Pavlova S, Tichy B, Malcikova J, Stano Kozubik K, Smardova J, Brychtova Y, Doubek M, Trbusek M, Mayer J, Pospisilova S (2009). ""MiR-34a, miR-29c and miR-17-5p are downregulated in CLL patients with TP53 abnormalities"". Leukemia. 23 (6): 1159–1163. doi:10.1038/leu.2008.377. PMID 19158830.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Musilova K, Mraz M (2014). ""MicroRNAs in B cell lymphomas: How a complex biology gets more complex"". Leukemia. 29: 1004–17. doi:10.1038/leu.2014.351. PMID 25541152.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Mraz M, Pospisilova S (2012). ""MicroRNAs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: From causality to associations and back"". Expert Review of Hematology. 5 (6): 579–581. doi:10.1586/ehm.12.54. PMID 23216588.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bonci D, Coppola V, Musumeci M, Addario A, Giuffrida R, Memeo L, D'Urso L, Pagliuca A, Biffoni M, Labbaye C, Bartucci M, Muto G, Peschle C, De Maria R (2008). ""The miR-15a-miR-16-1 cluster controls prostate cancer by targeting multiple oncogenic activities"". Nat Med. 14 (11): 1271–7. doi:10.1038/nm.1880. PMID 18931683.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Lehmann S, Ogawa S, Raynaud SD, Sanada M, Nannya Y, Ticchioni M, Bastard C, Kawamata N, Koeffler HP (March 2008). ""Molecular allelokaryotyping of early-stage, untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Cancer. 112 (6): 1296–305. doi:10.1002/cncr.23270. PMID 18246537.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Sargent R, Jones D, Abruzzo LV, Yao H, Bonderover J, Cisneros M, Wierda WG, Keating MJ, Luthra R (January 2009). ""Customized oligonucleotide array-based comparative genomic hybridization as a clinical assay for genomic profiling of chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". J Mol Diagn. 11 (1): 25–34. doi:10.2353/jmoldx.2009.080037. PMC 2607562. PMID 19074592.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Schwaenen C, Nessling M, Wessendorf S, Salvi T, Wrobel G, Radlwimmer B, Kestler HA, Haslinger C, Stilgenbauer S, Döhner H, Bentz M, Lichter P (January 2004). ""Automated array-based genomic profiling in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: development of a clinical tool and discovery of recurrent genomic alterations"". Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 101 (4): 1039–44. doi:10.1073/pnas.0304717101. PMC 327147. PMID 14730057.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Pfeifer D, Pantic M, Skatulla I, Rawluk J, Kreutz C, Martens UM, Fisch P, Timmer J, Veelken H (February 2007). ""Genome-wide analysis of DNA copy number changes and LOH in CLL using high-density SNP arrays"". Blood. 109 (3): 1202–10. doi:10.1182/blood-2006-07-034256. PMID 17053054.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Gunn SR, Mohammed MS, Gorre ME, Cotter PD, Kim J, Bahler DW, Preobrazhensky SN, Higgins RA, Bolla AR, Ismail SH, de Jong D, Eldering E, van Oers MH, Mellink CH, Keating MJ, Schlette EJ, Abruzzo LV, Robetorye RS (September 2008). ""Whole-genome scanning by array comparative genomic hybridization as a clinical tool for risk assessment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". J Mol Diagn. 10 (5): 442–51. doi:10.2353/jmoldx.2008.080033. PMC 2518739. PMID 18687794.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""T Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia"". AccessMedicine. Archived from the original on 2011-07-07. Retrieved 2009-02-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ascani S, Leoni P, Fraternali Orcioni G, Bearzi I, Piccioli M, Materazzi M, Zinzani PL, Gherlinzoni F, Falini B, Pileri SA (June 1999). ""T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia: does the expression of CD8+ phenotype justify the identification of a new subtype? Description of two cases and review of the literature"". Ann. Oncol. 10 (6): 649–53. doi:10.1023/A:1008349422735. PMID 10442186.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Harison 18th ed., Pg-919, table 110.1 ↑ National Cancer Institute. ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (PDQ) Treatment: Stage I, II, III, and IV Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia"". Archived from the original on 17 October 2007. Retrieved 2007-09-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Janssens; et al. (2011). ""Rituximab for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia in Treatment-Naïve and Treatment-Experienced Patients"". Contemporary Oncology. 3 (3): 24–36..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Shapira T, Pereg D, Lishner M (September 2008). ""How I treat acute and chronic leukemia in pregnancy"". Blood Rev. 22 (5): 247–59. doi:10.1016/j.blre.2008.03.006. PMID 18472198.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Cheson BD, Bennett JM, Grever M, Kay N, Keating MJ, O'Brien S, Rai KR (1996). ""National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group guidelines for chronic lymphocytic leukemia: revised guidelines for diagnosis and treatment"". Blood. 87 (12): 4990–7. PMID 8652811.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Eichhorst BF, Busch R, Hopfinger G, Pasold R, Hensel M, Steinbrecher C, Siehl S, Jäger U, Bergmann M, Stilgenbauer S, Schweighofer C, Wendtner CM, Döhner H, Brittinger G, Emmerich B, Hallek M (2006). ""Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine alone in first-line therapy of younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 107 (3): 885–91. doi:10.1182/blood-2005-06-2395. PMID 16219797.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Byrd JC, Peterson BL, Morrison VA, Park K, Jacobson R, Hoke E, Vardiman JW, Rai K, Schiffer CA, Larson RA (2003). ""Randomized phase 2 study of fludarabine with concurrent versus sequential treatment with rituximab in symptomatic, untreated patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results from Cancer and Leukemia Group B 9712 (CALGB 9712)"". Blood. 101 (1): 6–14. doi:10.1182/blood-2002-04-1258. PMID 12393429.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Keating MJ, O'Brien S, Albitar M, Lerner S, Plunkett W, Giles F, Andreeff M, Cortes J, Faderl S, Thomas D, Koller C, Wierda W, Detry MA, Lynn A, Kantarjian H (2005). ""Early results of a chemoimmunotherapy regimen of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab as initial therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". J. Clin. Oncol. 23 (18): 4079–88. doi:10.1200/JCO.2005.12.051. PMID 15767648.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rai KR, Peterson BL, Appelbaum FR, Kolitz J, Elias L, Shepherd L, Hines J, Threatte GA, Larson RA, Cheson BD, Schiffer CA (2000). ""Fludarabine compared with chlorambucil as primary therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". N. Engl. J. Med. 343 (24): 1750–7. doi:10.1056/NEJM200012143432402. PMID 11114313.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Steurer M, Pall G, Richards S, Schwarzer G, Bohlius J, Greil R (2006). Steurer, Michael, ed. ""Purine antagonists for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia"". Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 3 (3): CD004270. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004270.pub2. PMID 16856041.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Hallek M, Fischer K, Fingerle-Rowson G, Fink AM, Busch R, Mayer J, Hensel M, Hopfinger G, Hess G, von Grünhagen U, Bergmann M, Catalano J, Zinzani PL, Caligaris-Cappio F, Seymour JF, Berrebi A, Jäger U, Cazin B, Trneny M, Westermann A, Wendtner CM, Eichhorst BF, Staib P, Bühler A, Winkler D, Zenz T, Böttcher S, Ritgen M, Mendila M, Kneba M, Döhner H, Stilgenbauer S (2010). ""Addition of rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial"". Lancet. 376 (9747): 1164–74. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61381-5. PMID 20888994.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Associated Press, published in the New York Times. November 1, 2013 F.D.A. Clears New Cancer-Fighting Drug From Roche ↑ ""FDA approves Zydelig for three types of blood cancers"". Food and Drug Administration. July 23, 2014..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Brown JR, Byrd JC, Coutre SE, Benson DM, Flinn IW, Wagner-Johnston ND, Spurgeon SE, Kahl BS, Bello C, Webb HK, Johnson DM, Peterman S, Li D, Jahn TM, Lannutti BJ, Ulrich RG, Yu AS, Miller LL, Furman RR (May 2014). ""Idelalisib, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p110δ, for relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Blood. 123 (22): 3390–7. doi:10.1182/blood-2013-11-535047. PMC 4123414. PMID 24615777.CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Gopal AK, Kahl BS, de Vos S, Wagner-Johnston ND, Schuster SJ, Jurczak WJ, Flinn IW, Flowers CR, Martin P, Viardot A, Blum KA, Goy AH, Davies AJ, Zinzani PL, Dreyling M, Johnson D, Miller LL, Holes L, Li D, Dansey RD, Godfrey WR, Salles GA (2014). ""PI3Kδ inhibition by idelalisib in patients with relapsed indolent lymphoma"". N. Engl. J. Med. 370: 1008–18. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1314583. PMC 4039496. PMID 24450858..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ortiz-Maldonado V, García-Morillo M, Delgado J (2015). ""The biology behind PI3K inhibition in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia"". Ther Adv Hematol. 6 (1): 25–36. doi:10.1177/2040620714561581. PMC 4298491. PMID 25642313.CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Venetoclax label. fda.gov 1 2 Gribben JG (January 2008). ""Stem cell transplantation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Biol. Blood Marrow Transplant. 15 (1 Suppl): 53–8. doi:10.1016/j.bbmt.2008.10.022. PMC 2668540. PMID 19147079.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Dreger P, Brand R, Hansz J, Milligan D, Corradini P, Finke J, Deliliers GL, Martino R, Russell N, Van Biezen A, Michallet M, Niederwieser D (2003). ""Treatment-related mortality and graft-versus-leukemia activity after allogeneic stem cell transplantation for chronic lymphocytic leukemia using intensity-reduced conditioning"". Leukemia. 17 (5): 841–8. doi:10.1038/sj.leu.2402905. PMID 12750695.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ National Cancer Institute. ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (PDQ) Treatment: Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia"". Archived from the original on 17 October 2007. Retrieved 2007-09-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Keating MJ, Flinn I, Jain V, Binet JL, Hillmen P, Byrd J, Albitar M, Brettman L, Santabarbara P, Wacker B, Rai KR (2002). ""Therapeutic role of alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) in patients who have failed fludarabine: results of a large international study"". Blood. 99 (10): 3554–61. doi:10.1182/blood.V99.10.3554. PMID 11986207.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rossi D, Lobetti Bodoni C, Genuardi E, Monitillo L, Drandi D, Cerri M, Deambrogi C, Ricca I, Rocci A, Ferrero S, Bernocco E, Capello D, De Paoli L, Bergui L, Boi M, Omedè P, Massaia M, Tarella C, Passera R, Boccadoro M, Gaidano G, Ladetto M (June 2009). ""Telomere length is an independent predictor of survival, treatment requirement and Richter's syndrome transformation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia"". Leukemia. 23 (6): 1062–72. doi:10.1038/leu.2008.399. PMID 19340005.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Shanshal M, Haddad RY (April 2012). ""Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia"". Disease-a-Month. 58 (4): 153–167. doi:10.1016/j.disamonth.2012.01.009. PMID 22449365.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ National Cancer Institute. ""General Information About Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia"". Retrieved 2007-09-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) statistics"". Cancer Research UK. Retrieved 27 October 2014..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rawstron AC, Green MJ, Kuzmicki A, Kennedy B, Fenton JA, Evans PA, O'Connor SJ, Richards SJ, Morgan GJ, Jack AS, Hillmen P (July 2002). ""Monoclonal B lymphocytes with the characteristics of ""indolent"" chronic lymphocytic leukemia are present in 3.5% of adults with normal blood counts"". Blood. 100 (2): 635–9. doi:10.1182/blood.V100.2.635. PMID 12091358.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Turgeon, Mary Louise (2005). Clinical hematology: theory and procedures. Hagerstown, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. p. 283. ISBN 0-7817-5007-5. Frequency of lymphoid neoplasms. (Source: Modified from WHO Blue Book on Tumour of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. 2001, p. 2001.)CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Auer, Holly (August 10, 2011). ""Genetically Modified ""Serial Killer"" T Cells Obliterate Tumors in Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Penn Researchers Report"". University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. Retrieved August 12, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Porter DL, Levine BL, Kalos M, Bagg A, June CH (2011). ""Chimeric Antigen Receptor–Modified T Cells in Chronic Lymphoid Leukemia"". N. Engl. J. Med. 365 (8): 110810110014063. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1103849. PMC 3387277. PMID 21830940.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Kalos M, Levine BL, Porter DL, Katz S, Grupp SA, Bagg A, June CH (2011). ""T Cells with Chimeric Antigen Receptors Have Potent Antitumor Effects and Can Establish Memory in Patients with Advanced Leukemia"". Sci. Transl. Med. 3 (95): 95ra73. doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.3002842. PMC 3393096. PMID 21832238.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Palca, Joe (August 11, 2011). ""Gene Therapy Advance Trains Immune System To Fight Leukemia"". NPR. Retrieved August 12, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bazell, Robert (August 10, 2011). ""New leukemia treatment exceeds 'wildest expectations'"". MSNBC. Retrieved August 12, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ DeNoon, Daniel J. (August 10, 2011). ""Gene Therapy Cures Adult Leukemia"". WebMD. Retrieved August 12, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Beasly, Deena (August 10, 2011). ""Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors"". Reuters. Retrieved August 12, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ten Hacken E, Burger JA (2014). ""Microenvironment dependency in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: The basis for new targeted therapies"". Pharmacol. Ther. 144 (3): 338–48. doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2014.07.003. PMID 25050922.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/130/Suppl_1/428"
"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).[2] Early on there are typically no symptoms.[2] Later non-painful lymph nodes swelling, feeling tired, fever, or weight loss for no clear reason may occur.[2] Enlargement of the spleen and anemia may also occur.[2][4] It typically worsens gradually.[2]"
A diagram showing the cells affected by CLL
"Leukorrhea Synonyms Fluor albus, Whites Classification and external resources Specialty gynaecology ICD-10 N89.8 ICD-9-CM 623.5 MeSH D007973"
diagram showing leukorrhea infection
"Leukorrhea or (leucorrhoea British English) is a thick, whitish or yellowish vaginal discharge.[1][2] There are many causes of leukorrhea, the usual one being estrogen imbalance. The amount of discharge may increase due to vaginal infection or STDs, and it may disappear and reappear from time to time. This discharge can keep occurring for years, in which case it becomes more yellow and foul-smelling. It is usually a non-pathological symptom secondary to inflammatory conditions of vagina or cervix.[3]"
Leukorrhea
"Depression is a state of low mood and aversion to activity, that can affect a person's thoughts, behavior, tendencies, feelings, and sense of well-being. A depressed mood is a normal temporary reaction to life events such as loss of a loved one. It is also a symptom of some physical diseases and a side effect of some drugs and medical treatments. Depressed mood is also a symptom of some mood disorders such as major depressive disorder or dysthymia.[2]"
Depression (mood)
Alcohol abuse
"Stranger, social, and intergroup anxiety"
Trait
Test and performance
See also
Choice or decision
Symptoms
Types
Anxiety disorders
"Anxiety A person diagnosed with panphobia, from Alexander Morison's 1843 book The Physiognomy of Mental Diseases. Classification and external resources Specialty Psychiatry, psychology"
"Anxiety is an emotion characterized by an unpleasant state of inner turmoil, often accompanied by nervous behaviour such as pacing back and forth, somatic complaints, and rumination.[1] It is the subjectively unpleasant feelings of dread over anticipated events, such as the feeling of imminent death.[2] Anxiety is not the same as fear, which is a response to a real or perceived immediate threat,[3] whereas anxiety is the expectation of future threat.[3] Anxiety is a feeling of uneasiness and worry, usually generalized and unfocused as an overreaction to a situation that is only subjectively seen as menacing.[4] It is often accompanied by muscular tension,[3] restlessness, fatigue and problems in concentration. Anxiety can be appropriate, but when experienced regularly the individual may suffer from an anxiety disorder.[3]"
Amount of suffering
Interpretation based on Hindu Texts
"In Garbha Upanishad one of the four core vedic texts of hinduism, it states ""In the seventh month, life or the jivan enters the body shaped so far."" [1] Jivan or intelligence or soul as referenced in the text does not come alive until the 7th month.[1] The preceding verses provide an anatomically correct version of growth post conception.[1] The other texts cited above are also accurate when they suggest abortion of a jivan is a crime. But, the critical question of when a Jivan enters the body is answered in the Garbha Upanishad. Often, such nuances on Jivan are forgotten and blind references are made to the karma or ahimsa, without context. Primary references are not cited by advocates of the life at conception view, when abortion at any gestation period is called ""death of a human person"" without defining when an embryo becomes a Jivan. Citations are provided to Mahabaratha and other texts, when the Upanishads dealing with Garbha are clear and on point. The other texts must be read in light of the vedas containing the Garbha Upanishad to understand when such verses apply. According to the Hinduism Today website, ""Several Hindu institutions have shared their positions on abortion recently. The Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University does not take a formal unchanging political or religious stance on the issue of abortion. They advise that each case requires unique consideration... The Brahma Kumaris view the body as a physical vehicle for the immortal soul, and therefore the issue is not ""pro-life"" or ""anti-life"" but a choice between the amount of suffering caused to the souls of the parents and child in either course, abortion or motherhood"" and later states that ""ISKCON calls the 1.3 million abortions done in America last year ""a kind of doublethink,"" whereby people deny the status of humanity to the fetus...According to Vedic literature an eternal individual soul inhabits the body of every living creature...The soul enters the womb at the time of conception, and this makes the fetus a living, individual person.""[2] Some Hindu theologians believe personhood begins at 3 months and develops through to 5 months of gestation, possibly implying permitting abortion up to the third month and considering any abortion past the third month to be destruction of the soul's current incarnate body.[3] The Hindu teaching of the word Karma, the result of good and bad actions, makes abortions improper. In this teaching, the opposite of life is thought to be rebirth. Abortion causes termination not only to the unborn, but also to the unborn child’s karma. It is believed that negative karma goes to those who interrupt karma’s continuing cycle.[4]"
"In regard to the Vedic texts, the spirit, known as ātman, emerges into the zygote the first second that conception takes place. Fertilization is actually considered a sacramental action that signifies the bond of the ātman and matter. This unity, between matter and ātman, is never pure matter."
Examples
"Abuse during childbirth (or obstetric violence) is the neglect, physical abuse and lack of respect during childbirth. This treatment is regarded as a violation of the woman's rights. It also has the affect of preventing women from seeking pre-natal care and using other health care services.[1] Abuse during childbirth is one form of violence against women."
Adipomastia A male with probable comorbid gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia. Classification and external resources Specialty Plastic surgery
"Adipomastia, or lipomastia, also known colloquially as fatty breasts,[1] is a condition defined as an excess of skin and adipose tissue in the breasts without true breast glandular tissue.[2][3] It is commonly present in men with obesity, and is particularly apparent in men who have undergone massive weight loss.[4][5] A related/synonymous term is pseudogynecomastia.[6] The condition is different and should be distinguished from gynecomastia (""women's breasts""), which involves true glandular breast development in a male.[6] The two conditions can usually be distinguished easily by palpation to check for the presence of glandular tissue.[5][7] Another difference between the conditions is that breast pain/tenderness does not occur in pseudogynecomastia.[4] Sometimes, gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia are present together; this is related to the fact that fat tissue expresses aromatase, the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of estrogen, and estrogen is produced to a disproportionate extent in men with excessive amounts of fat, resulting in simultaneous glandular enlargement.[4][8]"
History
Positive emotions
Role of the community
Other factors
Children
References
Related factors
Role of the family
Studies in specific populations and causal situations
Building
Grit
Building in the classroom
Natural disasters
Families in poverty
Bullying
Process
"Psychological resilience is the ability to successfully cope with a crisis and to return to pre-crisis status quickly.[1] Resilience exist when the person uses ""mental processes and behaviors in promoting personal assets and protecting an individual from the potential negative effects of stressors"".[2] In simpler terms, psychological resilience exists in people who develop psychological and behavioral capabilities that allow them to remain calm during crises/chaos and to move on from the incident without long-term negative consequences. Psychological resilience is an evolutionary advantage that most people have and use to manage normal stressors."
"Formation of conscious perception and monitoring one's own socioemotional factors is considered as a stability aspect of positive emotions. This is not to say that positive emotions are merely a by-product of resilience, but rather that feeling positive emotions during stressful experiences may have adaptive benefits in the coping process of the individual.[28] Empirical evidence for this prediction arises from research on resilient individuals who have a propensity for coping strategies that concretely elicit positive emotions, such as benefit-finding and cognitive reappraisal, humor, optimism, and goal-directed problem-focused coping. Individuals who tend to approach problems with these methods of coping may strengthen their resistance to stress by allocating more access to these positive emotional resources.[29] Social support from caring adults encouraged resilience among participants by providing them with access to conventional activities.[30]"
Psychological resilience
"↑ de Terte, Ian; Stephens, Christine (2014). ""Psychological Resilience of Workers in High-Risk Occupations"". Stress and Health. 30 (5): 353–355. doi:10.1002/smi.2627. ISSN 1532-3005..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Robertson, Ivan T.; Cooper, Cary L.; Sarkar, Mustafa; Curran, Thomas (2015-04-25). ""Resilience training in the workplace from 2003 to 2014: A systematic review"". Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology. 88 (3): 533–562. doi:10.1111/joop.12120. ISSN 0963-1798..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Hopf S.M (2010). ""Risk and Resilience in Children Coping with Parental Divorce"". Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Richardson, Glenn E. (2002). ""The metatheory of resilience and resiliency"". Journal of Clinical Psychology. Wiley-Blackwell. 58 (3): 307–321. doi:10.1002/jclp.10020. ISSN 0021-9762. PMID 11836712..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Pedro-Carroll, JoAnne (2005). ""Fostering children's resilience in the aftermath of divorce: The role of evidence-based programs for children"" (PDF). Children's Institute, University of Rochester. p. 4. Retrieved 30 March 2016..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Garmezy, N. (1973). ""Competence and adaptation in adult schizophrenic patients and children at risk"", pp. 163–204 in Dean, S. R. (Ed.), Schizophrenia: The first ten Dean Award Lectures. NY: MSS Information Corp. ↑ Garmezy, N.; Streitman, S. (1974). ""Children at risk: The search for the antecedents of schizophrenia. Part 1. Conceptual models and research methods"". Schizophrenia Bulletin. 1 (8): 14–90. doi:10.1093/schbul/1.8.14. PMID 4619494..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Werner, E. E. (1971). The children of Kauai : a longitudinal study from the prenatal period to age ten. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0870228609. 1 2 Werner, E. E. (1989). Vulnerable but invincible: a longitudinal study of resilient children and youth. New York: McGraw-Hill, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0937431036. ↑ Masten, A. S.; Best, K. M.; Garmezy, N. (1990). ""Resilience and development: Contributions from the study of children who overcome adversity"". Development and Psychopathology. 2 (4): 425–444. doi:10.1017/S0954579400005812..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Masten, A. S. (1989). ""Resilience in development: Implications of the study of successful adaptation for developmental psychopathology"". In D. Cicchetti (Ed.), The emergence of a discipline: Rochester symposium on developmental psychopathology (Vol. 1, pp. 261–294). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0805805532. ↑ Cicchetti, D.; Rogosch, F. A. (1997). ""The role of self-organization in the promotion of resilience in maltreated children"". Development and Psychopathology. 9 (4): 797–815. doi:10.1017/S0954579497001442. PMID 9449006..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Fredrickson, B. L.; Tugade, M. M.; Waugh, C. E.; Larkin, GR (2003). ""A prospective study of resilience and emotions following the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11th, 2002"". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 84 (2): 365–376. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.84.2.365. PMC 2755263. PMID 12585810..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Luthar, S. S. (1999). Poverty and children's adjustment. Newbury Park, CA: Sage, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0761905189. ↑ Masten, A.S. (1994). ""Resilience in individual development: Successful adaptation despite risk and adversity"", pp. 3–25 in M. Wang & E. Gordon (Eds.), Risk and resilience in inner city America: challenges and prospects. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 080581325X. ↑ Zautra, A.J., Hall, J.S. & Murray, K.E. (2010). ""Resilience: A new definition of health for people and communities"", pp. 3–34 in J.W. Reich, A.J. Zautra & J.S. Hall (eds.), Handbook of adult resilience. New York: Guilford, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 146250647X. ↑ Siebert, Al (2005). The Resiliency Advantage, pp. 2–4. Berrett-Koehler Publishers. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 1576753298. ↑ Leadbeater, B., Dodgen, D. & Solarz, A. (2005). ""The resilience revolution: A paradigm shift for research and policy"", pp. 47–63 in R.D. Peters, B. Leadbeater & R.J. McMahon (eds.), Resilience in children, families, and communities: Linking context to practice and policy. New York: Kluwer. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0306486555. ↑ Siebert, Al (2005). The Resiliency Advantage, pp. 74–78. Berrett-Koehler Publishers. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 1576753298. ↑ Brain scan foretells who will fold under pressure; Tests on high-stakes math problems identify key regions of neural activity linked to choking, sciencenews.org (May 5, 2012). ↑ Charney, DS (2004). ""Psychobiological mechanisms of resilience and vulnerability: implications for successful adaptation to extreme stress"". Am J Psychiatry. 161 (2): 195–216. doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.161.2.195. PMID 14754765..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ozbay, F; Fitterling, H; Charney, D; Southwick, S (2008). ""Social support and resilience to stress across the life span: A neurobiologic framework"". Current psychiatry reports. 10 (4): 304–10. doi:10.1007/s11920-008-0049-7. PMID 18627668..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 Gavidia-Payne, S., Denny, B., Davis, K., Francis, A. and Jackson, M. (2015). ""Parental resilience: A neglected construct in resilience research"". Clinical Psychologist. 19 (3): 111–121. doi:10.1111/cp.12053.CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Pember, Mary Annette (May 28, 2015). ""Trauma May Be Woven in DNA of Native Americans"". Indian Country Today. Retrieved May 28, 2015..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 American Psychological Association. (2014). The Road to Resilience. ↑ John W. Reich; Alex J. Zautra; John Stuart Hall (2012). Handbook of Adult Resilience. Guilford Press. p. 114. ISBN 978-1-4625-0647-7..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Fredrickson, B. L.; Branigan, C (2005). ""Positive emotions broaden the scope of attention and thought-action repertoires"". Cognition & Emotion. 19 (3): 313–332. doi:10.1080/02699930441000238. PMC 3156609. PMID 21852891..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Tugade, M. M.; Fredrickson, B. L. (2004). ""Resilient individuals use positive emotions to bounce back from negative emotional experiences"". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 86 (2): 320–33. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.86.2.320. PMC 3132556. PMID 14769087..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ong, A. D.; Bergeman, C. S.; Bisconti, T. L.; Wallace, K. A. (2006). ""Psychological resilience, positive emotions, and successful adaptation to stress in later life"". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 91 (4): 730–49. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.91.4.730. PMID 17014296..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Luther, Kate (2015). ""Examining Social Support Among Adult Children of Incarcerated Parents"". Family Relations. 64 (4): 505–518. doi:10.1111/fare.12134..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Mahony, D. L.; Burroughs, W. J.; Lippman, L. G. (2002). ""Perceived Attributes of Health-Promoting Laughter: A Cross-Generational Comparison"". The Journal of Psychology. 136 (2): 171–81. doi:10.1080/00223980209604148. PMID 12081092..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Baker, K. H.; Minchoff, B.; Dillon, K. M. (1985). ""Positive Emotional States and Enhancement of the Immune System"". The International Journal of Psychiatry in Medicine. 15: 13–18. doi:10.2190/R7FD-URN9-PQ7F-A6J7..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Duckworth, A.L.; Peterson, C.; Matthews, M.D.; Kelly, D.R. (2007). ""Grit: perseverance and passion for long-term goals"". J Pers Soc Psychol. 92 (6): 11087–1101. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.92.6.1087..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Silvia, P.J.; Eddington, K.M.; Beaty, R.E.; Nusbaum, E.C.; Kwapil, T.R. (2013). ""Gritty people try harder: grit and effort-related cardiac autonomic activity during an active coping challenge"". J Int J Psychophysiol. 88 (2): 200–205. doi:10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2013.04.007..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Salles, A.; Cohen, G.L.; Mueller, C.M. (2014). ""The relationship between grit and resident well-being"". Am J Surg. 207 (2): 251–254. doi:10.1016/j.amjsurg.2013.09.006. PMID 24238604..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Kleinman, E.M.; Adams, L.M.; Kashdan, T.B.; Riskind, J.H. (2013). ""Gratitude and grit indirectly reduce risk of suicidal ideations by enhancing meaning in life: Evidence for a mediated moderation mode"". Journal of Research in Personality. 47 (5): 539–546. doi:10.1016/j.jrp.2013.04.007..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Sarkar, M.; Fletcher, D. (2014). ""Ordinary magic, extraordinary performance: Psychological resilience and thriving in high achievers"". Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology. 3: 46–60. doi:10.1037/spy0000003..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Theron, Linda; van Rensburg, Angelique (August 2018). ""Resilience over time: Learning from school-attending adolescents living in conditions of structural inequality"". Journal of Adolescence. 67: 167–178. doi:10.1016/j.adolescence.2018.06.012. ISSN 0140-1971..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Abraham, Ruth; Lien, Lars; Hanssen, Ingrid (2018-03-27). ""Coping, resilience and posttraumatic growth among Eritrean female refugees living in Norwegian asylum reception centres: A qualitative study"". International Journal of Social Psychiatry. 64 (4): 359–366. doi:10.1177/0020764018765237. ISSN 0020-7640..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Gagnon, Anita J.; Stewart, Donna E. (2013-11-13). ""Resilience in international migrant women following violence associated with pregnancy"". Archives of Women's Mental Health. 17 (4): 303–310. doi:10.1007/s00737-013-0392-5. ISSN 1434-1816..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Perlin, L. (1981). """"The stress process."""". Journal of Health and Social Behavior. 22: 337–56 – via EbscoHost..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Abraham, Ruth; Lien, Lars; Hanssen, Ingrid (2018-03-27). ""Coping, resilience and posttraumatic growth among Eritrean female refugees living in Norwegian asylum reception centres: A qualitative study"". International Journal of Social Psychiatry. 64 (4): 359–366. doi:10.1177/0020764018765237. ISSN 0020-7640..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Elm, Jessica (June 2016). """"I'm in this world for a reason"": Resilience and recovery among American Indian and Alaska Native two-spirit women"". Journal of Lesbian Studies. 20 (3–4): 352–371. doi:10.1080/10894160.2016.1152813. PMID 27254761..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""APA – Resilience Factors & Strategies"" (PDF). unc.edu. Retrieved 2010-09-16..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Masten, A. S., & Reed, M. G. (2002). Resilience in development. In C. R. Snyder, & S. J. Lopez (Eds.), Handbook of positive psychology (pp. 74-88). London, England: Oxford University Press. ↑ DERRYBERRY, DOUGLAS; REED, MARJORIE A.; PILKENTON–TAYLOR, CAROLYN (14 November 2003). ""Temperament and coping: Advantages of an individual differences perspective"". Development and Psychopathology. Cambridge University Press (CUP). 15 (04). doi:10.1017/s0954579403000439. ISSN 0954-5794. PMID 14984137..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Werner, E. E. (1995). ""Resilience in development"". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 4 (3): 81–85. doi:10.1111/1467-8721.ep10772327..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ruch, W.; Proyer, R. T.; Weber, M. (2009). ""Humor as a character strength among the elderly"". Zeitschrift für Gerontologie und Geriatrie. 43 (1): 13–18. doi:10.1007/s00391-009-0090-0. PMID 20012063..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Cicchetti, D.; Rogosch, F. A.; Lynch, M.; Holt, K. D. (1993). ""Resilience in maltreated children: Processes leading to adaptive outcome"". Development and Psychopathology. 5 (4): 629–647. doi:10.1017/S0954579400006209..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Block, J. H., & Block, J. (1980). ""The role of ego-control and ego-resiliency in the organisation of behaviour"". In W. A. Collins (Ed.), Development of cognition, affect, and social relations: Minnesota Symposia on Child Psychology (Vol. 13, p. 43). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 089859023X. ↑ Block, J. H., & Block, J. (1980). ""The role of ego-control and ego-resiliency in the organisation of behaviour"". In W. A. Collins (Ed.), Development of cognition, affect, and social relations: Minnesota Symposia on Child Psychology (Vol. 13, p. 48). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 089859023X. ↑ Bonanno, G. A.; Galea, S.; Bucciareli, A.; Vlahov, D. (2007). ""What predicts psychological resilience after disaster? The role of demographics, resources, and life stress"". Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. 75 (5): 671–682. doi:10.1037/0022-006X.75.5.671. PMID 17907849..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Hood, R., Hill, P., Spilka, B., (2009) The psychology of religion, 4th edition: An empirical approach. Newyork: The Guilford press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 1606233920. ↑ Peres, J.; Moreira-Almeida, A.; Nasello, A.; Koenig, H. (2007). ""Spirituality and resilience in trauma victims"". Journal of Religion & Health. 46 (3): 343–350. doi:10.1007/s10943-006-9103-0..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Department of the Army (2009). Field Manual No. 6-22.5. Combat and Operational Stress Control Manual for Leaders and Soldiers. Department of the Army Headquarters, Washington, DC, 18 March 2009. p 32. ↑ Padesky, Christine A.; Mooney, Kathleen A. (2012-06-01). ""Strengths-Based Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy: A Four-Step Model to Build Resilience"". Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy. 19 (4): 283–290. doi:10.1002/cpp.1795. ISSN 1063-3995..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Chua, Li Wen; Milfont, Taciano L.; Jose, Paul E. (2014-11-27). ""Coping Skills Help Explain How Future-Oriented Adolescents Accrue Greater Well-Being Over Time"". Journal of Youth and Adolescence. 44 (11): 2028–2041. doi:10.1007/s10964-014-0230-8. ISSN 0047-2891..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Robertson, D (2012). Build your Resilience. London: Hodder. ISBN 978-1444168716..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Brunwasser SM, Gillham JE, Kim ES.; Gillham; Kim (2009). ""A meta-analytic review of the Penn Resiliency Program's effect on depressive symptoms"". Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. 77 (6): 1042–1054. doi:10.1037/a0017671. PMC 4667774. PMID 19968381.CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rutter, M. (2008). ""Developing concepts in developmental psychopathology"", pp. 3–22 in J.J. Hudziak (ed.), Developmental psychopathology and wellness: Genetic and environmental influences. Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Publishing, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 1585622796. 1 2 Masten, A. S. (2001). ""Ordinary magic: Resilience processes in development"". American Psychologist. 56 (3): 227–238. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.56.3.227. PMID 11315249..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Yates, T. M., Egeland, B., & Sroufe, L. A. (2003). ""Rethinking resilience: A developmental process perspective"", pp. 234–256 in S. S. Luthar (Ed.), Resilience and vulnerability: Adaptation in the context of childhood adversities. New York: Cambridge University Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0521001617 ↑ Shastri, PC (2013). ""Resilience: Building immunity in psychiatry"". Indian J Psychiatry. 55 (3): 224–34. doi:10.4103/0019-5545.117134. PMC 3777343. PMID 24082242..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 Min, J. A.; Yu, J. J.; Lee, C. U.; Chae, J. H. (2013). ""Cognitive emotion regulation strategies contributing to resilience in patients with depression and/or anxiety disorders"". Comprehensive Psychiatry. 54 (8): 1190–7. doi:10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.05.008. PMID 23806709..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Werner, E. E. (1997). ""The Value of Applied Research for Head Start: Perspective a Cross-Cultural and Longitudinal"". NHSA Research Quarterly. 1: 15–24. doi:10.1207/s19309325nhsa0101_2..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Abecedarian Project (High-quality child care/preschool for children from disadvantaged backgrounds)"". evidencebasedprograms.org. Archived from the original on March 12, 2005.CS1 maint: Unfit url (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""The Carolina Abecedarian Project"". Fpg.unc.edu. 2007-05-22. Archived from the original on 2010-08-28. Retrieved 2010-09-16..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Sinclair, Mary F., Christenson, Sandra L. and Thurow, Martha L. (2005). ""Promoting School Completion of Urban Secondary Youth With Emotional or Behavioral Disabilities"" (PDF). Exceptional Children. 71 (4): 465–482.CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link) .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ ""Tuesday's Children"". www.tuesdayschildren.org. Retrieved 21 June 2012..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Gibson, Caitlin (August 1, 2011). ""Teens Affected By Terrorism United to Promote Peace"". The Washington Post. Retrieved 21 June 2012..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Robson, Sean; Manacapilli, Thomas (2014), Enhancing Performance Under Stress: Stress Inoculation Training for Battlefield Airmen (PDF), Santa Monica, California: RAND Corporation, p. 61, ISBN 9780833078445.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Yates, T. M., Egeland, B., & Sroufe, L. A. (2003). ""Rethinking resilience: A developmental process perspective"", pp. 234–256 in S. S. Luthar (Ed.), Resilience and vulnerability: Adaptation in the context of childhood adversities. New York: Cambridge University Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0521001617. ↑ Steven J. Wolin, M.D.; Sybil Wolin, Ph.D. (2010). The Resilient Self: How Survivors of Troubled Families Rise Above Adversity. Random House Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-307-75687-9..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Luthar, S. S. (2006). ""Resilience in development: A synthesis of research across five decades"", pp. 739–795 in D. Cicchetti and D. J. Cohen (Eds.), Developmental Psychopathology (2nd ed.): Vol. 3 Risk, Disorder, and Adaptation. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley and Sons. ↑ Garmezy, N. (1974, August) The study of children at risk: New perspectives for developmental psychopathology. ↑ Garmezy, N. (1991). ""Resiliency and vulnerability to adverse developmental outcomes associated with poverty"". American Behavioral Scientist. 34 (4): 416–430. doi:10.1177/0002764291034004003..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Howard, Alyssa. ""Emotional Adjustment of Moving for Young Kids"". Moveboxer.com..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Wang, Haertel, & Walberg, M. C., G. D., & H. J (Ed.). (1994). Educational Resilience in Inner Cities. Hillsdale, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. ↑ Benard, B. (1991) Fostering resiliency in kids: Protective factors in the family, school and community. Portland, OR: Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory. ↑ Cauce, Ana Mari; Stewart, Angela; Rodriguez, Melanie D.; Cochran, Bryan; Ginzler, Joshua. (2003) ""Overcoming the Odds? Adolescent Development in the Context of Urban Poverty"", pp. 343–391 in Suniya S. Luthar (ed.), Resilience and Vulnerability: Adaptation in the Context of Childhood Adversities. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0521001617. ↑ Doob, Christopher B. (2013). Social Inequality and Social Stratification in US Society. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Education Inc..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Monroy Cortés, B. G. & Palacios Cruz, L. (2011) Resiliencia: ¿Es posible medirla e influir en ella? Salud Mental, 34(3) 237–246. México: Instituto Nacional de Psiquiátrica Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISSN 0185-3325 [Spanish] ↑ Sapouna, M.; Wolke, D. (2013). ""Resilience to bullying victimization: The role of individual, family and peer characteristics"". Child Abuse & Neglect. 37 (11): 997–1006. doi:10.1016/j.chiabu.2013.05.009..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 Schneider, T. R.; Lyons, J. B.; Khazon, S. (2013). ""Emotional intelligence and resilience"". Personality and Individual Differences. 55 (8): 909–914. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2013.07.460..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Polan, J.; Sieving, R.; Pettingell, S.; Bearinger, L.; McMorris, B. (2012). ""142. Relationships Between Adolescent Girls' Social-Emotional Intelligence and Their Involvement in Relational Aggression and Physical Fighting"". Journal of Adolescent Health. 50 (2): S81. doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2011.10.216..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Grossman, Arnold H.; d'Augelli, Anthony R.; Frank, John A. (8 April 2011). ""Aspects of Psychological Resilience among Transgender Youth"". LGBT Youth. 8 (2): 103–115. doi:10.1080/19361653.2011.541347..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Pérez-López FR, Chedraui P, Kravitz AS, Salazar-Pousada D, Hidalgo L (2011). ""Present problems and controversies concerning pregnant adolescents"" (PDF). Open Access Journal of Contraception. 2: 85–94. doi:10.2147/OAJC.S13398..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Salazar-Pousada, D.; Arroyo, D.; Hidalgo, L.; Pérez-López, F. R.; Chedraui, P. (2010). ""Depressive Symptoms and Resilience among Pregnant Adolescents: A Case-Control Study"". Obstetrics and Gynecology International. 2010: 1–7. doi:10.1155/2010/952493. PMC 3065659. PMID 21461335..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 Kelly, J. B.; Emery, R. E. (2003). ""Children's Adjustment Following Divorce: Risk and Resilience Perspectives"". Family Relations. 52 (4): 352–362. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3729.2003.00352.x..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Pedro-Carroll, JA (2005). ""Fostering children's resilience in the aftermath of divorce: The told of evidence based programs for children"" (PDF). Family Court Review. 43: 52–64..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Frankenberg, Elizabeth; Sikoki, Bondan; Sumantri, Cecep; Suriastini, Wayan; Thomas, Duncan (2013). ""Education, Vulnerability, and Resilience after a Natural Disaster"". Ecology and Society. 18 (2). doi:10.5751/ES-05377-180216..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 3 4 ""Theme Study on Building Resilience to Natural Disasters and Major Economic Crises"" (PDF). Welcome to UN ESCAP..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} 1 2 ""Building Resilience to Natural Disasters"". The World Economic Forum..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Rynearson, Edward K. (2006). Violent Death: Resilience and Intervention Beyond the Crisis. Routledge. ISBN 1-135-92633-6..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Bonanno, George A. (2004). ""Loss, Trauma, and Human Resilience"". American Psychologist. 59 (1): 20–8. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.59.1.20. PMID 14736317..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Greeff, Abraham P.; Human, Berquin (2004). ""Resilience in families in which a parent has died"". The American Journal of Family Therapy. 32: 27–42. doi:10.1080/01926180490255765..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Cooley, E.; Toray, T.; Roscoe, L. (2010). ""Reactions to Loss Scale: Assessing Grief in College Students"". OMEGA – Journal of Death and Dying. 61: 25–51. doi:10.2190/OM.61.1.b..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Heath, M. A.; Donald, D. R.; Theron, L. C.; Lyon, R. C. (2014). ""Therapeutic Interventions to Strengthen Resilience in Vulnerable Children"". School Psychology International. 35 (3): 309–337. doi:10.1177/0143034314529912..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Evans, Brad; Reid, Julian (2014). Resilient Life: The Art of Living Dangerously. Malden, MA: Polity Press. ISBN 978-0-7456-7152-9..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Burt, K. B.; Paysnick, A. A. (2012). ""Resilience in the transition to adulthood"". Development and Psychopathology. 24 (2): 493–505. doi:10.1017/S0954579412000119. PMID 22559126..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Boyden, J. & Mann, G. (2005). ""Children's risk, resilience, and coping in extreme situations"", pp. 3–26 in M. Ungar (ed.), Handbook for working with children and youth: Pathways to resilience across cultures and contexts. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 1412904056. ↑ Castro, F.G. & Murray, K.E. (2010). ""Cultural adaptation and resilience: Controversies, issues, and emerging models"", pp. 375–403 in J.W. Reich, A.J. Zautra & J.S. Hall (Eds.), Handbook of adult resilience. New York: Guilford Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 146250647X. ↑ Dawes, A. & Donald, D. (2000). ""Improving children's chances: Developmental theory and effective interventions in community contexts"", pp. 1–25 in D. Donald, A. Dawes & J. Louw (eds.), Addressing childhood adversity, Cape Town, SA: David Philip, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0864864493. ↑ American Psychological Association, Task Force on Resilience and Strength in Black Children and Adolescents (2008). Resilience in African American children and adolescents: A vision for optimal development. Washington, DC: Author. ↑ ""Building resilience in Aboriginal communities"". Anisnabe Kekendazone Network Environment for Aboriginal Health Research. ↑ Ungar, M. (2004). Nurturing hidden resilience in troubled youth. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0802085652. ↑ Obradović, J.; Bush, N.R.; Stamperdahl, J; Adler, NE; Boyce, WT (2010). ""Biological sensitivity to context: The interactive effects of stress reactivity and family adversity on socioemotional behavior and school readiness"". Child Development. 81 (1): 270–289. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8624.2009.01394.x. PMC 2846098. PMID 20331667..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Ungar, M. (2004a). ""A constructionist discourse on resilience: Multiple contexts, multiple realities among at-risk children and youth"". Youth & Society. 35 (3): 341–365. doi:10.1177/0044118X03257030..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ↑ Werner, E.E. & Smith, R.S. (2001). Journeys from childhood to midlife: Risk, resiliency, and recovery. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em} ISBN 0801487382."
"The Statue of Unity is a statue of Indian freedom fighter and politician Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (1875–1950) in the Narmada district of Gujarat, India. It currently holds the record for the world's tallest statue, with a height of 182 metres (597 ft).[2][3] Vallabhbhai Patel was one of the most prominent leaders of the Indian independence movement, and the first Deputy Prime Minister of India. The statue is on a river-island facing the Narmada Dam (also called as Sardar Sarovar dam) near Rajpipla, 100 kilometres southeast of the city of Vadodara."
"The monument and its surroundings occupy more than 2 hectares (4.9 acres), and are surrounded by a 12 km2 (4.6 sq mi; 3,000 acres) artificial lake. It was built by Larsen & Toubro, who received the contract for ₹29.89 billion (US$420 million) for the design, construction and maintenance in October 2014. The construction was started on 31 October 2014 and completed in mid-October 2018. It was designed by Indian sculptor Ram V. Sutar,[4][5] and was dedicated by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 31 October 2018, the 143rd anniversary of Patel's birth.[6][7][8][9]"
"The Public Provident Fund is a savings-cum-tax-saving instrument in India,[1] introduced by the National Savings Institute of the Ministry of Finance in 1968. The aim of the scheme is to mobilize small savings by offering an investment with reasonable returns combined with income tax benefits.[2] The scheme is fully guaranteed by the Central Government. Balance in PPF account is not subject to attachment under any order or decree of court. However, Income Tax & other Government authorities can attach the account for recovering tax dues."
Eligibility
Interest rates
Period Interest Rate 2014 - March 2016 8.7%
Quarter Interest Rate April 2016 - June 2016[8] 8.9% July 2016 - September 2016[9] 8.1% October 2016 - December 2016[10] 8.0% January 2017 - March 2017 8.0%
Quarter Interest Rate April 2017 - June 2017[11] 7.9% July 2017 - September 2017[12] 7.8% October 2017 - December 2017 7.8% January 2018 - March 2018 7.6%
Quarter Interest Rate April 2018 - June 2018[13] 7.6% July 2018 - September 2018[14] 7.6% October 2018 - December 2018[15] 8.0%
Duration of scheme
"Individuals who are residents of India are eligible to open their account under the Public Provident Fund, and are entitled to tax-free returns."
"Original duration is 15 years. Thereafter, on application by the subscriber, it can be extended for 1 or more blocks of 5 years each."
PPF maturity options
Subscriber has 3 options once the maturity period is over.[16]
"Complete withdrawal. Extend the PPF account with no contribution – PPF account can be extended after the completion of 15 years, subscriber doesn’t need to put any amount after the maturity. This is the default option meaning if subscriber doesn't take any action within one year of his PPF account maturity this option activates automatically. Any amount can be withdrawn from the PPF account if the option of extension with no contribution is chosen. Only restriction is only one withdrawal is permitted in a financial year. Rest of the amount keeps earning interest. Extend the PPF account with contribution - With this option subscriber can put money in his PPF account after extension. If subscriber wants to choose this option then he needs to submit Form H in the bank where he is having a PPF account within one year from the date of maturity (before the completion of 16 yrs in PPF). With this option subscriber can only withdraw maximum 60% of his PPF amount (amount which was there in the PPF account at the beginning of the extended period) within the entire 5 yrs block. Every year only a single withdrawal is permitted."
Features
"The public provident fund is established by the central government. One can voluntarily open an account with any nationalized bank,selected authorized private bank or post office. The account can be opened in the name of individuals including minor."
Non resident Indians
"As of August 2018, as per the Indian Ministry of finance (Department of Economic Affairs), NRIs (Non resident Indians) are not allowed to open new PPF accounts. However, they are allowed to continue their existing PPF accounts upto its 15 years maturity period.[3] An amendment to earlier rules allowing NRIs to invest in PPF was proposed in the finance bill 2018, but has not yet been approved.[4]"
PPF tax concessions
Annual contributions qualify for tax deduction under Section 80C of income tax. The tax benefit is capped at Rs 1.5 lacs per financial year. Contributions to PPF accounts of the spouse and children are also eligible for tax deduction.
Equity-linked savings scheme National Pension System National Savings Certificates (India)
Investment and returns
"A minimum yearly deposit of Rs. 500 is required to open and maintain a PPF account. A PPF account holder can deposit a maximum of Rs 1.5 lacs in his/her PPF account (including those accounts where he is the guardian) per financial year. There must be a guardian for PPF accounts opened in the name of minor children. Parents can act as guardians in such PPF accounts of minor children. Any amount deposited in excess of Rs 1.5 lacs in a financial year won't earn any interest. The amount can be deposited in lump sum or in a maximum of 12 installments per year. However, this does not mean a single deposit once in a month."
"The Ministry of Finance, Government of India announces the rate of interest for PPF account every quarter. The current interest rate effective from 1 October 2018 is 8.0% Per Annum' (compounded annually). Interest will be paid on 31 March every year. Interest is calculated on the lowest balance between the close of the fifth day and the last day of every month."
"Equity-linked savings scheme popularly known as ELSS are close-ended,lock-in period of 3 years diversified equity schemes offered by mutual funds in India.[1][2] They offer tax benefits under the new Section 80C of Income Tax Act 1961.[3] ELSS can be invested using both SIP(Systematic Investment Plan) and lump sums investment options.[4][5][6] There is a 3 years lock-in period, and thus has better Liquidity compared to other options like NSC and Public Provident Fund.[7] ELSS is considered one of the best tax saving instruments.[8][9]"
National Pension System (NPS) Mutual fund Income tax in India
"National Pension System, also known as NPS, is a voluntary defined contribution pension system in India."
Who can join
"A citizen of India, whether resident or non-resident can join NPS, subject to the following conditions:"
The subscriber should be between 18 and 60 years old as of the date of submission of his/her application to the Point of Presence (POP) / Point of Presence–Service Provider-Authorized branches of POP for NPS (POP-SP). The subscribers should comply with the Know Your Customer (KYC) norms as detailed in the subscriber registration form. Should not be Un-discharged insolvent and individuals of unsound mind.
"The NPS started with the decision of the Government of India to stop defined benefit pensions for all its employees who joined after 1 January 2004. While the scheme was initially designed for government employees only, it was opened up for all citizens of India between the age of 18 and 60 in 2009.[1] In its overall structure NPS is closer to 401(k) plans of the United States. Administered and regulated by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA)(Based on the recommandations of Chakka Muni Balaji Ganesh Committee),in accordance with (Juturu Sahithi committee) it is a quasi-EET (Exempt-Exempt-Taxable) (Based on the recommandations of Juturu Sahithi Committee) instrument in India where 40% of the corpus escapes tax at maturity, while 60% of the corpus is taxable.[2][3][4] Of the 60% taxable corpus, 40% has to be compulsorily used to purchase an annuity.[5]"
Subscriber base
"As of December 2016, the number of subscribers had grown substantially to 1.41 crore. NPS AUM (assets under management) grew to Rs 1,61,016 crore as of December 2016. 88% of total NPS AUM is accounted for Government sector, both Central and State employees, who also account for 35 per cent of the number of subscribers.[34] As of March 2016, The total AUM of the NPS Tier II segment is Rs 197 crore. NPS Tier II has 34,620 subscribers with an average balance of Rs 54,000.[35]"
Opening an account
Online process via eNPS
e-NPS started in 2015. an NPS account can be opened online using either of the two options available to complete the KYC process:[36][37]
"One, Aadhaar-based KYC, wherein you will be authenticated through an OTP that will be sent to the mobile phone number that is registered with Aadhaar. Once one authenticates oneself, the KYC information will be taken from the Aadhaar database. If you had selected Aadhaar-based registration, you have to upload a scanned signature. You can make your investment through Net banking from any bank’s account.if you choose Aadhaar-based KYC, you don’t have to sign and send the physical form. You can simply e-sign. There is no need to print the NPS form that you had filled online and submit the printout within 90 days to the central record keeping agency. Second way to proceed is to give the permanent account number (PAN) and bank account details to complete the KYC authentication step."
Offline process
"For offline opening, one has to visit any of the Points of Presence (POPs) appointed by the PFRDA.[38]"
Withdrawal
"Premature withdrawal in NPS before age of 60 years required parking 80% of the sum in an annuity.[39] One can withdraw 20 percent of the corpus before 60 years but he/she must buy annuity with 80 percent of the corpus.[40] In 2016, the NPS allowed withdrawal of up to 25% of contributions for specified reasons, if the scheme is at least 3 years old with certain conditions. One can withdraw the complete amount if the pension collected is less than INR 2,00,000.[citation needed]"
Tax benefits
"Up to Rs. 150,000 under Section 80CCD(1). The benefit is additionally capped at 10% of basic salary. The benefit under Section 80C, Section 80CCC and Section 80CCD(1) is capped at Rs 150,000. Contribution Up to Rs 50,000 under Section 80CCD(1B). This is over and above tax benefit under Section 80CCD(1b).[41] Employer co-contribution up to 10% of basic and DA without any upper cap in terms of amount is tax free income in hands of employees under Section 80CCD(2).[42]"
Equity-linked savings scheme (ELSS) Mutual fund Income tax in India
Both sides of 1953 50R Post Office National Savings Certificate.
"National Savings Certificates, popularly known as NSC, is an Indian Government Savings Bond, primarily used for small savings and income tax saving investments in India. It is part of the postal savings system of Indian Postal Service (India Post)."
"These can be purchased from any Post Office in India by an adult (either in his/her own name or on behalf of a minor), a minor, a trust, and two adults jointly. These are issued for five and ten year maturity and can be pledged to banks as collateral for availing loans. The holder gets the tax benefit under Section 80C of Income Tax Act, 1961.[1][2][3]"
"The certificates were heavily promoted by the Indian government in the 1950s after India's independence, to collect funds for ""nation-building"".[5]"
Discontinuation of Physical Certificate
"The existing system of physical pre-printed certificates for NSC shall stand discontinued w.e.f. 1.4.2016 and shall be replaced by ‘National Savings Certificate' Certificate on electronic mode (e-mode). Till the CBS system transits to that e-mode, banks and post offices may choose to issue a physical certificate recorded on a passbook."
Further reading
"The Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme (commonly referred to as RGESS), is a tax saving scheme announced in the 2012-2013 Union Budget of India,[1] aimed at first time retail investors. Named after Rajiv Gandhi, the sixth Prime Minister of India, the scheme was announced by the finance minister, P. Chidambaram, on 21 September 2012.[2] The scheme is aimed at encouraging the flow of savings of small investors in the domestic capital market, and presents investors with tax benefits provisioned as a new section, 80CCG,[3] in the Income Tax act. The 2017 Union budget of India has proposed that the scheme be phased out entirely by 2018, citing the lack of adoption.[4]"
Eligibility
"The scheme can be availed by Indian residents with an annual income not exceeding Rs: 12 lakhs. In addition, for a person to be eligible, he should not have had a Demat account prior to 23 November 2012, or should only have a Demat account that has never been used to trade. There is a lock in period of three years. [5]"
Benefits
"RGESS permits investments totalling up to a maximum of Rs: 50,000, of which, 50% is tax deductible. The maximum possible tax savings is Rs: 5150. In addition, the scheme is provisioned to provide the tax break over the Rs: 1Lakhs."
"Kalinga is a landlocked province in the Philippines situated within the Cordillera Administrative Region in Luzon. Its capital is Tabuk and borders Mountain Province to the south, Abra to the west, Isabela to the east, Cagayan to the northeast, and Apayao to the north. Kalinga and Apayao are the result of the 1995 partitioning of the former province of Kalinga-Apayao; which was seen to better service the respective needs of the various indigenous peoples in the area."
Climate
"The province experiences an average temperature ranging from 17 to 22 °C (63 to 72 °F) with Type 3 weather patterns. The dry season extends from November to April, while the rest of the year is considered the rainy season, the heaviest rains usually occurring from July to October."
Hydrology
The Chico River passing through Tinglayan
"The province is drained mainly by the Chico River, with its headwaters in the Mountain Province and emptying into the Cagayan River. The Chico River has several tributaries: Bunog River in Tinglayan in the south; the Tanudan and Biga Rivers in the east; Pasil River in the central area; and Poswoy, Dao-angan, Mabaca and Saltan Rivers in the west."
Several small lakes can also be found in Kalinga.
Administrative divisions
"Kalinga comprises one city and seven municipalities, all encompassed by a single legislative district."
"The province's name is derived from the Ibanag and Gaddang noun ""kalinga"", which means ""enemy"", ""fighter"", or ""headtaker"".[4] The word Kalinga is from the ancient Luzon word ""Lus-in"", meaning to ""to separate and burn to ashes"" and consequently modified to be connected to the ancient name of Indian state of Odisha, a major Hindu and Buddhist state in ancient India.[citation needed]"
Culture
"100-year old Apo Whang Od, the embodiment of Kalinga tattoo artistry."
"A student from Tinglayan, vested in traditional garb and holding a handcrafted weapon first produced during the Second World War; traditional Kalinga cloth is draped over Orthodox icons in the manner of Russian nabozhnyks."
"There are many sub-tribes in the province. The strong sense of tribal membership and filial loyalty results in frequent tribal unrest and occasional outright war. Due to the mountainous terrain and warrior-culture of the people, the Kalinga were able to preserve their culture despite centuries of occupation in the lowlands by the Spaniards, Americans, and the Japanese. Unbeknownst to many, the last stand of President Emilio Aguinaldo in 1901 took place in Lubuagan, which he proclaimed the seat of government, [citation needed] and where the Aguinaldo Museum commemorates the event."
"The Kalinga people are highlanders and the most extensive rice farmers of the Cordillera peoples, having been blessed with some of the most suitable land for both wet and dry rice farming. Like the Ifugao, the Kalinga are prolific terrace builders. The Kalinga are also skilled craftsmen, well-versed in basketry, loom weaving, metalsmithing, and pottery, the last centred in the lower Chico River Valley."
Geography
The mountains of Kalinga in Lubuagan
"Kalinga covers a total area of 3,231.25 square kilometres (1,247.59 sq mi)[5] occupying the central section of the Cordillera Administrative Region in Luzon. The province is bordered by Mountain Province to the south, Abra to the west, Isabela to the east, Cagayan to the northeast, and Apayao to the north.."
Make in India
Events
Make in Odisha conclave 2016
"The first Make in Odisha conclave[3] was organised by Government of Odisha, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) and Government of India and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) between 30th November 2016 to 2nd December 2016 in Bhubaneswar, Odisha . The key objective of the conclave is to showcase the manufacturing prowess of the state and the investment opportunities across the focus sectors. Which are:[4][5]"
"Chemicals, Petrochemicals and Plastics Ancillary and Downstream in Metal sector Textiles and Apparel Food Processing including Seafood Electronics Manufacturing and IT and Tourism"
"In the conclave the Odisha Governments has received 28 proposals of 18,434 crores investment with a capacity of 27,565 jobs generation.[6]"
Make in Odisha conclave 2018
"The second edition of Make in Odisha is from 11th November 2018 to 15th November 2018 in Bhubaneswar, Odisha.[7] Six countries like Japan, China, Italy, Germany, Saudi Arabia and South Korea along with industrialist from India will attend this conclave.[8]"
Honours
Foreign Honours
Key to the City
"Xi Jinping (/ʃiː/;[2][3] Chinese: 习近平; born 15 June 1953) is a Chinese politician serving as general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC),[4] president of the People's Republic of China,[5] and chairman of the Central Military Commission.[6] Often described as China's ""paramount leader"", in 2016 the CPC officially gave him the title of ""core leader"".[7] As general secretary, Xi holds an ex-officio seat on the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China, China's top decision-making body.[8]"
"Xi is the first general secretary born after the Second World War and the establishment of the People's Republic of China. The son of Chinese Communist veteran Xi Zhongxun, he was exiled to rural Yanchuan County as a teenager following his father's purge during the Cultural Revolution, and lived in a cave in the village of Liangjiahe, where he organised communal labourers.[9] After studying at the Tsinghua University as a ""Worker-Peasant-Soldier Student"",[10] Xi rose through the ranks politically in China's coastal provinces. Xi was governor of Fujian province from 1999 to 2002, and governor, then party secretary of neighbouring Zhejiang province from 2002 to 2007. Following the dismissal of Chen Liangyu, Xi was transferred to Shanghai as party secretary for a brief period in 2007. He joined the Politburo Standing Committee and central secretariat in October 2007, spending the next five years as Hu Jintao's presumed successor. Xi was vice president from 2008 to 2013 and vice chairman of the Central Military Commission from 2010 to 2012."
"Since assuming power, Xi has introduced far-ranging measures to enforce party discipline and to ensure internal unity. His signature anti-corruption campaign has led to the downfall of prominent incumbent and retired Communist Party officials, including members of the Politburo Standing Committee.[11] Described as a Chinese nationalist,[12] he has tightened restrictions over civil society and ideological discourse, advocating Internet censorship in China as the concept of ""internet sovereignty"".[13][14] Xi has called for further socialist market economic reforms, for governing according to the law and for strengthening legal institutions, with an emphasis on individual and national aspirations under the slogan ""Chinese Dream"".[15] He has also championed a more assertive foreign policy, particularly with regard to China–Japan relations, China's claims in the South China Sea, and its role as a leading advocate of free trade and globalization.[16] Xi has sought to expand China's Eurasian influence through the One Belt One Road Initiative.[11] The 2015 meeting between Xi and Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou marked the first time the political leaders of both sides of the Taiwan Strait have met since the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1950.[17]"
Early life and education
Five-year-old Xi Jinping (left) with younger brother Xi Yuanping and father Xi Zhongxun in 1958.
"Xi Jinping was born in Beijing on 15 June 1953. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949 by Mao Zedong, Xi's father held a series of posts, including propaganda chief, vice-premier, and vice-chairman of the National People's Congress.[23] Xi's father is from Fuping County, Shaanxi, and Xi could further trace his patrilineal descent from Xiying in Dengzhou, Henan.[24] He is the second son of Xi Zhongxun and his wife Qi Xin.[25]"
"Jetavanaramaya, one of the many massive stupas raided during Magha's reign."
"Having executed Parakrama Pandya and ransacked the temples of Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa, Magha was crowned king by his own soldiers and settled in the capital of Pulatthinagara. The army have been described in the Culavamsa to be ruthless, and to have destroyed the Buddhist religion, ransacking and destroying many Stupas.[20]"
"Kalinga Magha (Tamil: கலிங்க மாகன் / கலிங்க மாகோன் / காளிங்க மகன், Sinhalese: කාලිංග මාඝ, Odia: କଳିଙ୍ଗ ମଘା) also known as Magha the Tyrant and Kulankayan Cinkai Ariyan,[3] is an invader who is remembered primarily for his aggressive conquest. He is identified as the founder of the Jaffna kingdom and first king of the Aryacakravarti dynasty. According to the Segarāsasekara-Mālai belong the first Aryacakravarti king of Jaffna to Eastern Ganga dynasty of Kalinga, who were descendants of Western Gangas and Cholas.[4] His family was connected to the rulers of Ramanathapuram in Tamil Nadu. Kalinga Magha’s relatives of Ramanathapuram administered the famous temple of Rameswaram.[5] He usurped the throne from Parakrama Pandyan II of Polonnaruwa, in 1215.[6] His reign saw the massive migration of native Sinhalese to the south and west of Sri Lanka, and into the mountainous interior, in a bid to escape his power.[7] Magha was the last ruler to have his seat in the traditional northern seat of native power on the island, known as Rajarata; so comprehensive was his destruction of Sinhalese power in the north that all of the successor kingdoms to Rajarata existed primarily in the south of the island."
Resources on Sri Lankan history. An account of the shift of Sinhalese power to the south of Sri Lanka.
Origin theories
"The origin of Kalinga Magha is unknown, but due to his name, he is often referred to be from Kalinga, a historical place which corresponds to present-day Odisha and northern parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.[8][9] Although his ethnicity has given rise to other various theories."
The most favored theory states that he was a prince from the Chodaganga dynasty who ruled Kalinga.[10][11] They were descended from the Western Ganga dynasty and the Tamil Chola dynasty.[12][13][14]
Invasion and Reign
"Kalinga Magha landed in Karainagar in 1215 AD with a large army of 24,000[15] Tamil and Malayali soldiers.[16] He camped his soldiers in Karainagar and Vallipuram and brought the Jaffna principality under his control. Kalinga Magha then marched to Polonnaruwa, defeated Parakrama Pandyan II and ruled it for 21 years. He was expelled from Polonnaruwa in 1236 and withdrew to Jaffna which he ruled till 1255.[17]"
Mention of Kalinga Magha in Culavamsa
"The Culavamsa, describes him as a ""Damila Warrior of Kalinga"", meaning a Tamil ariyan from Kalinga.[18] It has been speculated that Magha may have had a claim through the Kalingan dynasty established by Nissanka Malla in 1187, who was the uncle of Chodaganga of Polonnaruwa.[19] Whatever his pretext however he swiftly lost any potential support amongst the populace by the sheer violence of his invasion."
"After landing in Tambapanni Vijaya met Kuveni the queen of the Yakkhas, who was disguised as a beautiful woman but was really a 'yakkini' (devil) named Sesapathi.[11]"
Upatissa Nuwara
"During the end of his reign Vijaya, who was having trouble choosing a successor, sent a letter to the city of his ancestors, Sinhapura, in order to invite his brother Sumitta to take over the throne.[12] However Vijaya had died before the letter had reached its destination so the elected minister of the people[13] Upatissa, the Chief government minister or prime minister and leading chief among the Sinhalese became regent and acted as regent for a year. After his coronation which was held in the Kingdom of Tambapanni, he left it building another one bearing his own name. While his was king, Upatissa established the new capital Upatissa Nuwara, in which the kingdom was moved to from the Kingdom of Tambapanni. When Vijaya's letter arrived Sumitta had already succeeded his father as king of his country, and so he sent his son Panduvasdeva to rule Upatissa Nuwara.[12]"
Anuradhapura
"In 377 BC, King Pandukabhaya (437–367 BC) made Anuradhapura his capital and developed it into a prosperous city.[16][17] Anuradhapura (Anurapura) was named after the minister who first established the village and after a grandfather of Pandukabhaya who lived there. The name was also derived from the city's establishment on the auspicious asterism called Anura.[18] Anuradhapura was the capital of all the monarchs who ruled from the dynasty.[19]"
"The consecration ceremonies and rituals associated with kingship began during the reign of Devanampiya Tissa,[20] under the influence of Ashoka of India.[21] The whole country was brought under the rule of a single monarch by Dutthagamani for the first time. Before this, it had several principalities independent of the Anuradhapura Kingdom.[20] The king of Anuradhapura was seen as the supreme ruler throughout the island, even at times when he did not have absolute control over it.[22]"
Genealogy
"The House of Vijaya (also known as the Vijayan dynasty and sometimes referred to as the ""Great Dynasty"") was the first recorded Sinhalese royal dynasty that ruled over the island, Sri Lanka. According to Sinhalese folklore Prince Vijaya is the traditional first king of Sri Lanka, founding the Kingdom of Tambapanni and the dynasty subsequently founding the Kingdom of Upatissa Nuwara and finally the Anuradhapura Kingdom.[1][2][3]"
"The House of Vijaya claimed a close relationship to the Shakya dynasty, family of the Gautama Buddha.[25]"
Timeline
Notes
There were 37 Vijayan monarchs who reigned during a span of 609 years and ruled all but 80 of them. The dynasty ended when Vasabha of the House of Lambakanna I seized power in 66 AD.[4]
Bibliography
Origins
A section of the mural at the Ajanta Caves depicts the 'coming of Sinhala'. Prince Vijaya is seen in both of groups of elephants and riders.
"In 543 BC, prince Vijaya (543–505 BC) arrived in Sri Lanka, having been banished from his homeland in India. He eventually brought the island under his control and established himself as king. After this, his retinue established villages and colonies throughout the country. One of these was established by Anuradha, a minister of King Vijaya, on the banks of a stream called Kolon and was named Anuradhagama.[5]"
Reign
Tambapanni
"The Kingdom of Tambapanni was founded by Prince Vijaya and his 700 followers after landing on the island, in a district near modern day Mannar which is believed to be the district of Chilaw,[6][7] after leaving Suppāraka.[8] It is recorded the Vijaya made his landing on the day of Buddha's death.[9] Vijaya claimed Tambapanni his capital and soon the whole island come under this name. Tambapanni was originally inhabited and governed by Yakkhas, having their capital at Sirīsavatthu and their queen Kuveni.[10] According to the Samyutta Commentary, Tambapanni was one hundred leagues in extent."
Awards
Early life and History
"Banamali Maharana Born (1941-05-16)16 May 1941 Raghurajpur, Puri, Odisha, India Died 17 November 2018(2018-11-17) (aged 77) Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India Occupation Indian Percussionist Awards Sangeet Natak Akademi Award"
"Banamali Maharana(16 May 1941- 17 Nov 2018), was a legendary Indian Percussionist famous for playing ""Mardala"". He was awarded with Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 2004 ."
"Banamali was born in the artist village Raghurajpur of Puri district . He had an affinity for music from a very young age. He didn't get any training in his childhood but was attracted to the ""Rasaleelaa"" performed by Mohan Sundar Deb Goswami and his group . He began playing Khol and Dholak with Deb Goswami . His formal training started after he joined Annapurna Theatre . He learned percussion from Singhari Shyamsundar Kar and Kshetramohan Kar while being at Annapurna .[1] Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra was his related brother and was from the same village . Banamali accompanied Kelucharan in most of his dance performances . Banamali started teaching Mardala first at Kala Vikas kendra, Cuttack and then at ""Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalay"" .[2] He introduced a seven-year course in Mardala music at the Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalaya . He retired at Head of the Mardala department in 1999 . He was the most sort after Mardal player for Odissi performances in his time. Besides Kelucharana, Banamali accompanied Sanjukta Panigrahi, Priyambada Mohanty Hejmadi, Sonal Mansingh, Aruna Mohanty , Sujata Mohapatra etc in their dance performance both in India and outside .[3]"
Orissa Sangeet Natak Akademi Award - 1994 Central Sangeet Natak Akademi Award - 2004 Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra Award - 2008 Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja Sanman - 2016[4]
"Personal finance is the financial management which an individual or a family unit performs to budget, save, and spend monetary resources over time, taking into account various financial risks and future life events.[1] When planning personal finances, the individual would consider the suitability to his or her needs of a range of banking products (checking, savings accounts, credit cards and consumer loans) or investment private equity, (stock market, bonds, mutual funds) and insurance (life insurance, health insurance, disability insurance) products or participation and monitoring of and- or employer-sponsored retirement plans, social security benefits, and income tax management."
"Typical goals that most adults and young adults have are paying off credit card/student loan/housing/car loan debt, investing for retirement, investing for college costs for children, paying medical expenses.[7][8]"
Personal finance principles
"Personal circumstances differ considerably, with respect to patterns of income, wealth, and consumption needs. Tax and finance laws also differ from country to country, and market conditions vary geographically and over time. This means that advice appropriate for one person might not be appropriate for another. A financial advisor can offer personalized advice in complicated situations and for high-wealth individuals, but University of Chicago professor Harold Pollack and personal finance writer Helaine Olen argue that in the United States good personal finance advice boils down to a few simple points:[9]"
"Pay off your credit card balance every month, in full Save 20% of your income Maximize contributions to tax-advantaged funds such as a 401(k) retirement funds, individual retirement accounts, and 529 education savings plans When investing savings: Don't attempt to trade individual securities Avoid high-fee and actively managed funds Look for low-cost, diversified mutual funds that balance risk vs. reward appropriately to your target retirement year If using a financial advisor, require them to commit to a fiduciary duty to act in your best interest Advocate for government social insurance programs"
Further reading
Personal financial planning process
"The key component of personal finance is financial planning, which is a dynamic process that requires regular monitoring and re-evaluation. In general, it involves five steps:[5][6]"
"Assessment: A person's financial situation is assessed by compiling simplified versions of financial statements including balance sheets and income statements. A personal balance sheet lists the values of personal assets (e.g., car, house, clothes, stocks, bank account), along with personal liabilities (e.g., credit card debt, bank loan, mortgage). A personal income statement lists personal income and expenses. Goal setting: Having multiple goals is common, including a mix of short- and long-term goals. For example, a long-term goal would be to ""retire at age 65 with a personal net worth of $1,000,000,"" while a short-term goal would be to ""save up for a new computer in the next month."" Setting financial goals helps to direct financial planning. Goal setting is done with an objective to meet specific financial requirements. Plan creation: The financial plan details how to accomplish the goals. It could include, for example, reducing unnecessary expenses, increasing the employment income, or investing in the stock market. Execution: Execution of a financial plan often requires discipline and perseverance. Many people obtain assistance from professionals such as accountants, financial planners, investment advisers, and lawyers. Monitoring and reassessment: As time passes, the financial plan is monitored for possible adjustments or reassessments."
The primary market is the part of the capital market that deals with the issuance of new securities and then sold to investor directly by the issuer. Investor buy securities that were never traded before. Primary markets create long term instruments through which corporate entities raise funds from the capital market.[1][2] It is also known as the New Issue Market (NIM).[3]
Secondary market Third market Fourth market
"In a primary market, companies, governments or public sector institutions can raise funds through bond issues and corporations can raise capital through the sale of new stock through an initial public offering (IPO). This is often done through an investment bank or finance syndicate of securities dealers. The process of selling new shares to investors is called underwriting. Dealers earn a commission that is built into the price of the security offering, though it can be found in the prospectus.[1]"
"Since the securities are issued directly by the company to its investors, the company receives the money and issues new security certificates to the investors. The primary market play the crucial function of facilitating the capital formation within the economy. The securities issued at the primary market can be issued in face value, premium value, and at par value."
"Once issued, the securities typically trade on a secondary market such as a stock exchange, bond market or derivatives exchange.[1]"
Raising Funds
Corporate entities raise funds from the primary market in three ways:[1]
Public Issue - a stock exchange lists the securities and the corporate raises funds through Initial Public Offering (IPO). Rights Issue - existing shareholders are offered more shares at a discounted price and on a pro-rata basis. Preferential Allotment - a corporate issues shares at a price which may or may not be related to the current market price of the same security.
"There are numerous types of Indian New Year's days celebrated in various regions at various times of the year. Observance is determined by whether the lunar calendar is being following or the solar calendar. Those states/regions who follow solar calendar, the new year falls on SANKRANTI of the first month of the Indian calendar i.e. BAISAKHA/VAISAKHA. Mostly this day falls during 13th - 15th of the month of April of the English calendar. Those following Lunar calendar, month of CHAITRA (mostly falls in the month of March) is considered as the first month of the year, so the new year is celebrated in this month. In the same way, few regions/states in India follow Sankaranti-to-Sankaranti as one month and few regions follow Purnami (full moon day) -to-Purnami as a month."
Calendar View
"Solar or Lunar calendar Date Festival name Religion / Regions (Hindu)[1] Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Ugadi Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Bighu Bihar Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Pratipada Uttar Pradesh Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Bikhu Uttarakhand Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Gudhi Padwa / Samsaar Padwo Maharashtra, Goa, Konkan Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Cheiraoba[2] Manipur Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Navreh Kashmir Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Navratra Jammu - - - Rajasthan Lunar varies, Mar/Apr Cheti Chand Sindh Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Vaisakhi Punjab Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Rongali Bihu Assam Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Tamil puthandu Tamil Nadu Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Vishu Kerala Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Bishuva Sankranti Odisha Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Poila Boishakh Bengal Solar fixed, April 13/14/15 Jud Sheetal Mithila, part of Bihar Lunar varies, Oct/Nov Nav Varas Gujarat Solar varies, Aug 17,18,19[3] Nowruz Parsis Solar Fixed, March 21 Nowruz[4][note 1] Zoroastrians"
Details
"In Gujarat, the next day of Diwali is celebrated as the first day of the Vikram Samvat calendar which is the first day of the month Kartik.[6] Hindu religious festivals are based on Vikram Samvat. New year in Vikram Samvat starts from the first day of Chaitra Shukla paksha."
Hindu units of time Hindu calendar Indian national calendar Diwali in Gujarat
"Chir Batti, Chhir Batti or Cheer batti is a ghost light reported in the Banni grasslands, a seasonal marshy wetlands[1] and adjoining desert of the marshy salt flats of the Rann of Kutch[2] near the India–Pakistan border in Kutch district, Gujarat State, India. Local villagers refer to the light as Chir Batti in their Kutchhi-Sindhi language, with Chir meaning ghost and Batti meaning light.[1]"
"Bhajaman Behara Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha In office 1989–1991 Preceded by Kamakhya Prasad Singh Deo Succeeded by Kamakhya Prasad Singh Deo Constituency Dhenkanal, Odisha Personal details Born (1943-11-01) 1 November 1943 Bagdia, Dhenkanal District, Orissa, British India Nationality Indian Political party Janata Dal"
"Bhajaman Behara is an Indian politician, belonging to Janata Dal. In the 2009 election he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Dhenkanal in Odisha and he was Union Minister of State, Petroleum & Chemicals.[1][2][3]"
Profile on Lok Sabha website
Bhajaman Behara
"Krupasindhu Bhoi (born 5 August 1942 Village Tampar Sambalpur district (Orissa)) was member of 7th Lok Sabha from Sambalpur (Lok Sabha constituency) in Odisha state, India."
"He was elected to 8th, 10th and 11th Lok Sabha from Sambalpur .[1]"
Arka Keshari Deo Member: 16th Lok Sabha Incumbent Assumed office 2014 Preceded by Bhakta Charan Das Constituency Kalahandi Personal details Political party Biju Janata Dal Alma mater Osmania University Profession Politician
Arka Keshari Deo is an Indian politician. He is elected to the 16th Lok Sabha in 2014 from Kalahandi constituency in Odisha.[1] He is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party. Arka joined BJD in 2013 after death of his father Bikram Keshari Deo.[2]
External links
"Bikram Keshari Deo MP, 12th, 13th and 14th Lok Sabha Constituency Kalahandi Personal details Born (1952-11-26)26 November 1952 Kalahandi, Orissa Died 7 October 2009(2009-10-07) (aged 56) Nationality Indian Political party BJP Spouse(s) Nayanshree Devi Children 1 Son And 2 Daughters Residence Kalahandi, Odisha As of 22 September, 2006 Source:"
"Bikram Keshari Deo (26 November 1952 – 7 October 2009) was a member of the 12th, 13th and 14th Lok Sabha of India. [1] [2] [3] He represented the Kalahandi constituency of Orissa and was a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."
He died on 7 October 2009 after suffering a cardiac arrest.[4]
"Dharanidhar Jena was an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament of India from the Bhadrak in Odisha as a member of the Swatantra Party.[1][2][3][4]"
"Gopinath Gajapati[1] (born 6 March 1943)[2] was a member of the 9th and 10th Lok Sabha of India. He represented the Berhampur constituency of Odisha and is a member of the Indian National Congress political party. He later joined BJP,[3] and moved to Biju Janata Dal in 2009.[4]"
"Gurucharan Naik was an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Keonjhar in Odisha as a member of the Swatantra Party.[2][3][4]"
Official Biographical Sketch in Lok Sabha Website
Rama Chandra Hansdah is an Indian politician. He is elected to the 16th Lok Sabha in 2014 from Mayurbhanj constituency in Odisha.[1] He had left Nationalist Congress Party and joined Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in June 2012 along with other three NCP MLAs.[2][3] He is a former member of Legislative Assembly of Odisha.He was arrested by CBI on 4 November 2014 for his alleged involvement in chit fund scam.[4]
Jhina Hikaka is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party. He is elected to the 16th Lok Sabha in 2014 from Koraput constituency in Odisha. He was a MLA from Laxmipur assembly constituency of Koraput district in Odisha.[1] He was kidnapped by Maoists and kept in captivity for 33 days before being released unharmed on 26 April 2012.[2]
Mohan Jena (born 14 July 1957) is a member of the 14th Lok Sabha of India. He represents the Jajpur constituency of Orissa and is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party.[1]
"In machine learning and statistics, classification is the problem of identifying to which of a set of categories (sub-populations) a new observation belongs, on the basis of a training set of data containing observations (or instances) whose category membership is known. Examples are assigning a given email to the ""spam"" or ""non-spam"" class, and assigning a diagnosis to a given patient based on observed characteristics of the patient (sex, blood pressure, presence or absence of certain symptoms, etc.). Classification is an example of pattern recognition."
"In the terminology of machine learning,[1] classification is considered an instance of supervised learning, i.e., learning where a training set of correctly identified observations is available. The corresponding unsupervised procedure is known as clustering, and involves grouping data into categories based on some measure of inherent similarity or distance."
Algorithms
"In unsupervised learning, classifiers form the backbone of cluster analysis and in supervised or semi-supervised learning, classifiers are how the system characterizes and evaluates unlabeled data. In all cases though, classifiers have a specific set of dynamic rules, which includes an interpretation procedure to handle vague or unknown values, all tailored to the type of inputs being examined.[10]"
"Since no single form of classification is appropriate for all data sets, a large toolkit of classification algorithms have been developed. The most commonly used include:[11]"
Linear classifiers Fisher's linear discriminant Logistic regression Naive Bayes classifier Perceptron Support vector machines Least squares support vector machines Quadratic classifiers Kernel estimation k-nearest neighbor Boosting (meta-algorithm) Decision trees Random forests Neural networks Learning vector quantization
"General elections were held in India in April–May 1996 to elect the members of the 11th Lok Sabha. The result of the election was a hung parliament, which would see three Prime Ministers in two years and force the country back to the polls in 1998. Atal Bihari Vajpayee of Bharatiya Janta Party, single largest party to win this election, winning 67 more seats than previous 10th Lok Sabha, formed the government which lasted for only 16 days."
"The United Front, was created and got support from 332 members out of the 545 seats in the Lok Sabha, resulting in H. D. Deve Gowda from the Janata Dal being the 11th Prime Minister of India. Later I. K. Gujral, took the command of the country but when Lalu Prasad Yadav left Janta Dal and formed his own party, 11th Lok Sabha was dissolved to get fresh mandate from the voters for next 12th Lok Sabha in the Indian general election, 1998."
"The Lok Sabha (House of the People) is the lower house in the Parliament of India. 4 sitting members from Rajya Sabha, the Upper House of Indian Parliament, were elected to 11th Lok Sabha after the Indian general election, 1996.[1]"
Important members
Speaker P. A. Sangma from 23 May 1996 to 23 March 1998 Deputy Speaker: Suraj Bhan from 12 July 1996 to 4 December 1997 Secretary General: Surendra Mishra from 1 January 1996 to 15 July 1996 S. Gopalan from 15 July 1996 to 14 July 1999[2]
Prime Ministers
Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 16 May 1996 to 1 June 1996 from Bharatiya Janata Party H. D. Deve Gowda from 1 June 1996 to 21 April 1997 from Janata Dal United Front I. K. Gujral from 21 April 1997 to 19 March 1998 from Janata Dal United Front
"Elon Reeve Musk FRS (/ˈiːlɒn/; born June 28, 1971) is a technology entrepreneur, investor, and engineer.[10][11][12] He holds South African, Canadian, and U.S. citizenship and is the founder, CEO, and lead designer of SpaceX;[13] co-founder, CEO, and product architect of Tesla, Inc.;[14] co-founder and CEO of Neuralink; and co-founder of PayPal. In December 2016, he was ranked 21st on the Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People.[15] As of October 2018,[update] he has a net worth of $22.8 billion and is listed by Forbes as the 54th-richest person in the world.[16]"
"Born and raised in Pretoria, South Africa, Musk moved to Canada when he was 17 to attend Queen's University. He transferred to the University of Pennsylvania two years later, where he received an economics degree from the Wharton School and a degree in physics from the College of Arts and Sciences. He began a Ph.D. in applied physics and material sciences at Stanford University in 1995 but dropped out after two days to pursue an entrepreneurial career. He subsequently co-founded Zip2, a web software company, which was acquired by Compaq for $340 million in 1999. Musk then founded X.com, an online bank. It merged with Confinity in 2000 and later that year became PayPal, which was bought by eBay for $1.5 billion in October 2002.[17][18][19][20]"
"In May 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, an aerospace manufacturer and space transport services company, of which he is CEO and lead designer. He helped fund Tesla, Inc., an electric vehicle and solar panel manufacturer, in 2003, and became its CEO and product architect. In 2006, he inspired the creation of SolarCity, a solar energy services company that is now a subsidiary of Tesla, and operates as its chairman. In 2015, Musk co-founded OpenAI, a nonprofit research company that aims to promote friendly artificial intelligence. In July 2016, he co-founded Neuralink, a neurotechnology company focused on developing brain–computer interfaces, and is its CEO. In December 2016, Musk founded The Boring Company, an infrastructure and tunnel-construction company."
"In addition to his primary business pursuits, Musk has envisioned a high-speed transportation system known as the Hyperloop, and has proposed a vertical take-off and landing supersonic jet electric aircraft with electric fan propulsion, known as the Musk electric jet.[21][22] Musk has stated that the goals of SpaceX, Tesla, and SolarCity revolve around his vision to change the world and humanity.[23] His goals include reducing global warming through sustainable energy production and consumption, and reducing the risk of human extinction by establishing a human colony on Mars.[24]"
"The Union Budget of India, also referred to as the Annual Financial Statement in the Article 112 of the Constitution of India,[1] is the annual budget of the Republic of India. The Government presents it on the first day of February so that it could be materialized before the commencement of new financial year in April. Till 2016 it was presented on the last working day of February by the Finance Minister of India in Parliament. The budget, which is presented by means of the Finance bill and the Appropriation bill has to be passed by both the Houses before it can come into effect from April 1, the start of India's financial year."
"As of September 2017[update], Morarji Desai has presented 10 budgets which is the highest followed by P Chidambaram's 9 and Pranab Mukherjee's 8. Yashwant Sinha, Yashwantrao Chavan and C.D. Deshmukh have presented 7 budgets each while Manmohan Singh and T.T. Krishnamachari have presented 6 budgets.[3]"
Parsuram Majhi (born 1 December 1961) was a member of the 13th Lok Sabha and 14th Lok Sabha of India. He represented the Nowrangpur constituency of Odisha and is a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) political party.
"Bhartruhari Mahtab ଭର୍ତ୍ତୃହରି ମହତାବ Official portrait in Lok sabha Member of Indian Parliament (Lok Sabha) for Cuttack Incumbent Assumed office 1998 Preceded by Anadi Sahu Constituency Cuttack Personal details Born (1957-09-08) 8 September 1957 (age 61) Agarpara, Odisha, India Nationality Indian Political party Biju Janata Dal Spouse(s) Mahasweta Mahtab Children 1 Son And 1 Daughter Residence Cuttack Alma mater Utkal University Profession Journalist, Politician"
"Bhartruhari Mahtab (born 8 September 1957) is an Indian politician. He is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party. He was elected to the 12th Lok Sabha in 1998 from Cuttack constituency in Odisha. He was re-elected to the Lok Sabha in 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014 from the same constituency.[1] He received the outstanding parliamentarian award 2017. He is also the recipient of Sansad Ratna Award 2017 and 2018 for his outstanding performance in 'Debates'. [2]"
Balabhadra Majhi is an Indian politician. He is elected to the 16th Lok Sabha in 2014 from Nabarangpur constituency in Odisha.[1] He is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party.
"Mangaraj Mallik is an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament of India from Bhadrak in Odisha as a member of the Janata Dal.[1][2][3]"
Issues
"General elections are due to be held in India between April and May 2019 to constitute the 17th Lok Sabha. The elections can be held at an earlier date if the Council of Ministers recommends dissolution of the 16th Lok Sabha to the President of India. However, the government, Home Minister, has publicly announced that the elections will be held according to schedule.[1]"
"Legislative Assembly elections in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Sikkim and Jammu and Kashmir are expected to be held simultaneously with the general elections.[2]"
Electoral system
Venues
Qualification
Sudam Marndi (born 2 June 1967) was a member of the 14th Lok Sabha of India. He represented the Mayurbhanj constituency of Orissa and is a member of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) political party.
"Balgopal Mishra (born November 5, 1941 in Titlagarh, Bolangir district, Orissa) is an Indian politician and was member of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He is a member of the Odisha Legislative Assembly from the Loisingha constituency in Bolangir district as well as was member of 9th Lok Sabha from Bolangir constituency as Janata Dal candidate.[1][2][3][4]"
"Legislative Assembly elections are due to be held in Odisha in 2019,[1] concurrent with the Indian general election, 2019. The incumbent Biju Janata Dal headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the Bharatiya Janata Party and Indian National Congress Party are considered to be the main contestants in the election.The term of current assembly elected in 2014 will be expire on 24 May 2019."
Opinion polls
Date Polling agency BJD INC BJP Others Lead 15 November 2018 Spick Media 84 33 28 2 19
2019 elections in India
Members of the 17th Lok Sabha will be elected during the 2019 Indian general election.[1]
Members
Speaker: TBD Deputy Speaker: TBD Leader of the House: TBD Leader of Opposition: TBD
Party Abr. Seats Leader in Lok Sabha Indian National Congress INC TBD TBD Bharatiya Janata Party BJP TBD TBD All India Trinamool Congress AITC TBD TBD All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam AIADMK TBD TBD Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam DMK TBD TBD Shiv Sena SS TBD TBD Telugu Desam Party TDP TBD TBD Telangana Rashtra Samithi TRS TBD TBD Biju Janata Dal BJD TBD TBD Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) TBD TBD Nationalist Congress Party NCP TBD TBD Samajwadi Party SP TBD TBD Lok Janshakti Party LJP TBD TBD Aam Aadmi Party AAP TBD TBD Shiromani Akali Dal SAD TBD TBD YSR Congress Party YSRCP TBD TBD All India United Democratic Front AIUDF TBD TBD Independents IND TBD TBD Rashtriya Janata Dal RJD TBD TBD Rashtriya Lok Samta Party RLSP TBD TBD Apna Dal AD TBD TBD Indian National Lok Dal INLD TBD TBD Indian Union Muslim League IUML TBD TBD Janata Dal (United) JD(U) TBD TBD Jharkhand Mukti Morcha JMM TBD TBD All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen AIMIM TBD TBD All India N.R. Congress AINRC TBD TBD Communist Party of India CPI TBD TBD Jammu & Kashmir National Conference JKNC TBD TBD Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party JKPDP TBD TBD Janata Dal (Secular) JD(S) TBD TBD Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party NDPP TBD TBD National Peoples Party NPP TBD TBD Pattali Makkal Katchi PMK TBD TBD Rashtriya Lok Dal RLD TBD TBD Revolutionary Socialist Party RSP TBD TBD Sikkim Democratic Front SDF TBD TBD Swabhimani Paksha SWP TBD TBD Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) JAP(L) TBD TBD Makkal Needhi Maiam MNM TBD TBD Nominated Anglo-Indians NOM TBD TBD
"She is also a board member of The Hunger Project, a New York-based international charity.[9]"
Bibliography
"Dr. V. Mohini Giri (born 1938) is an Indian Community service worker and activist, who has been Chairperson of the Guild of Service, a New Delhi-based social service organization. Established in 1979, it provides advocacy for women's and children rights for education, employment, and financial security.[2][3] She founded War Widows Association, New Delhi in 1972. She has also remained Chairperson of the National Commission for Women (1995-1998).[4]"
"In 2007, she was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, given by Government of India.[5]"
"Born in Lucknow to scholar Dr. V. S Ram, she graduated from Lucknow University,[1] followed by post graduation in Ancient Indian history from University of Delhi, and a doctorate from G.B. Pant University.[7]"
"Giri is the daughter-in-law of V. V. Giri, former President of India.[1]"
Giri started her career as an academic and established the women's studies department at Lucknow University.[6] Giri has been the Founder President of the War Widows Association which was formed in 1972 after the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 [8] and in 2000 became the Founder Trustee of the Women’s Initiative for Peace in South Asia.[3]
Gulab Kaur was an Indian freedom fighter.
"Born circa 1890 in the village Bakshiwala in Sangrur district of Punjab, India,[1] Gulab Kaur was married to Mann Singh. The couple went to Manila, Philippines, intending to migrate to America ultimately.[1][2]"
Political career
"In Manila, Gulab Kaur joined Ghadar Party, an organization founded by Sikh-Punjabi immigrants with the aim to liberate the subcontinent from British Rule.[1]"
"Gulab Kaur kept vigil on party printing press in guise. Posing as a journalist with a press pass in hand, she distributed arms to the Ghadar Party members. Gulab Kaur also encouraged others to join the Ghadar Party by distributing independence literature and delivering inspiring speeches to Indian passengers of ships.[1]"
"Gulab Kaur with about fifty other freedom Ghadrites of the Philippines joined the S.S. Korea batch and sailed for India, changing at Singapore from S.S. Korea to Tosha Maru. After reaching India, she with some other revolutionaries were active in the villages of Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Jallandhar to mobilize the masses for armed revolution for the cause of the independence of the country.[3]"
"She was sentenced to two years in prison in Lahore, then in British-India and now in Pakistan, for seditious acts.[1][2] There is a book available about Gulab Kaur titled Gadar Di Dhee Gulaab Kaur in Punjabi written by S Kesar Singh published in 2014.[4]"
Investigation
International
"On 14 February 2019, a convoy of vehicles carrying security personnel on the Jammu Srinagar National Highway was attacked by a vehicle-bound suicide bomber at Lethpora (near Awantipora) in the Pulwama district, Jammu and Kashmir, India. The attack resulted in the death of 46 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)[lower-alpha 1] personnel and the attacker.[1] The responsibility for the attack was claimed by the Pakistan-based Islamist militant group Jaish-e-Mohammed.[2]"
International organizations
Background
Attack
West Khasi Hills is an administrative district in the state of Meghalaya in India.
References
External links
Geography
"The Airports Authority of India or AAI is a statutory body (created through the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994) working under the Ministry of Civil Aviation is responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining and managing civil aviation infrastructure in India. It provides Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air traffic management (CNS/ATM) services over Indian airspace and adjoining oceanic areas. It also manages a total of 125[1] Airports, including 11[1] International Airports, 8 Customs Airports, 81 Domestic Airports and 25 Civil enclaves at Military Airfields. AAI also has ground installations at all airports and 25 other locations to ensure safety of aircraft operations. AAI covers all major air-routes over Indian landmass via 29 Radar installations at 11 locations along with 700VOR/DVOR installations co-located with Distance Measuring Equipment (DME). 52 runways are provided with Instrument landing system (ILS) installations with Night Landing Facilities at most of these airports and Automatic Message Switching System at 15 Airports."
"AAI has four training establishments viz. The Civil Aviation Training College (CATC) at Prayagraj, National Institute of Aviation Management and Research (NIAMAR) at Delhi and Fire Training Centres (FTC) at Delhi & Kolkata. An Aerodrome Visual Simulator (AVS) has been provided at CATC and non-radar procedural ATC simulator equipment is being supplied to CATC Allahabad and Hyderabad Airport. AAI has a dedicated Flight Inspection Unit (FIU) with a fleet of three aircraft fitted with flight inspection system to inspect Instrument Landing Systems up to Cat-III, VORs, DMEs, NDBs, VGSI (PAPI, VASI) and RADAR (ASR/MSSR). In addition to in-house flight calibration of its navigational aids, AAI undertakes flight calibration of navigational aids for the Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and other private airfields in the country."
"The Government of India constituted the International Airports Authority of India (IAAI) in 1972 to manage the nation's international airports while the National Airports Authority (NAA) was constituted in 1986 to look after domestic airports.[2][3] The organisations were merged in April 1995 by an Act of Parliament, namely, the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994 and has been constituted as a Statutory Body and was named as Airports Authority of India (AAI). This new organisation was to be responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining and managing civil aviation infrastructure both on the ground and air space in the country."
Themes of National Science Day
National Science Day is celebrated in India on 28 February each year to mark the discovery of the Raman effect by Indian physicist Sir C V Raman on 28 February 1928.
History of National Science Day
"In 1986, the NCSTC asked the Government of India to designate February 28 as National Science Day. The event is now celebrated all over the country in schools, colleges, universities and other academic, scientific, technical, medical and research institutions. On the occasion of the first NSD (National Science Day)(28 February 1987) NCSTC announced institution of the National Science Popularization awards for recognizing outstanding efforts in the area of science communication and popularization."
Celebration of National Science Day
"National science day is celebrated on every year on 28 February.The celebration also includes public speeches, radio,TV , science movies, science exhibitions based on themes and concepts, watching the night sky, live projects, research demonstration, debates, quiz competitions, lectures, science model exhibitions and many more activities."
Objectives of Celebrating National Science Day
"National Science Day is being celebrated every year to widely spread a message about the Importance of science used in the daily life of the people. To display all the activities, efforts and achievements in the field of science for human welfare.It is celebrated to discuss all the issues and implement new technologies for the development in the field of science. To give an opportunity to the scientific minded citizens in the country. To encourage the people as well as popularize the Science and Technology."
Odisha Sahitya Academy Award ଓଡ଼ିଶା ସାହିତ୍ୟ ଏକାଡେମି ପୁରସ୍କାର (Odia) Award for contributions to Literature Awarded for Literary award in India Sponsored by Odisha Sahitya Academy First awarded 1957-58 Website www.orissaculture.gov.in/osa.asp
"Odisha Sahitya Academi (Odia: ଓଡ଼ିଶା ସାହିତ୍ୟ ଏକାଡେମି ପୁରସ୍କାର is an institution of letters was established in the Year 1957 for work actively for the development of Odia language and literature and to set literary activities and to promote through them all, the cultural unity of the state of Odisha, India.[1]"
Aims and objectives of Odisha Sahitya Academy
See also
"To promote co-operation and cordiality among authors and litterateurs. To promote co-ordination among literary and cultural organizations of the state. To encourage exchange of ideas and thoughts among authors and litterateurs at the inter -state level. To compile, edit and publish Odia manuscripts/ books of high standard. To undertake projects, collect and publish works of folklore. To organize seminars/ workshops/ lectures on different aspects of Odia language and literature. To present awards to Odia authors of the state for their work . To felicitate eminent Odia authors/litterateurs. To organise lectures in memory of distinguished authors/litterateurs"
Awards
Claims
India
Pakistan
Aftermath
Reactions
"On 26 February 2019, twelve Mirage 2000 jets of the Indian Air Force crossed the Line of Control in Kashmir, performing an airstrike inside Pakistan. India said the airstrike was in retaliation to the Pulwama attack, which took place two weeks prior to the strike.[1]"
Background
Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman (born 21 June 1983) is an officer in the Indian Air Force and a MiG-21 Bison pilot.[1][2] He received widespread media recognition for becoming a prisoner of war held captive in Pakistan during 2019 India-Pakistan Stand off.
Early life and career
"He was born on 21 June 1983 to Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman in Tamil Nadu, India.[3] His mother is a doctor.[3] He was commissioned in the Indian Air Force in 2004 as a fighter pilot.[3]"
"On 27 February 2019, He flew with his plane MIG-21 and chased Pakistan's fighter plane F-16, which he shot down[4] in aerial engagement but he crossed into Pakistan territory and was shot down by Pakistan Air Force. Later, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs confirmed that an Indian pilot is missing in action after a MiG-21 Bison fighter plane was lost while engaging with Pakistani jets after they violated Indian airspace during the 2019 India–Pakistan standoff.[5]"
Repatriation
"On 28 February 2019, Pakistan announced to release him on 1 March 2019 via Wahgah border as a Peace Gesture.[6] Indian PM Modi welcomed the release of Abhinandan, suggesting that the whole country is proud of him, at a political rally in his homestate.[7]"
See also
2019 Balakot airstrike Ajay Ahuja Kambampati Nachiketa Saurabh Kalia
"Voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) or verifiable paper record (VPR) is a method of providing feedback to voters using a ballotless voting system. A VVPAT is intended as an independent verification system for voting machines designed to allow voters to verify that their vote was cast correctly, to detect possible election fraud or malfunction, and to provide a means to audit the stored electronic results. It contains the name of the candidate (for whom vote has been cast) and symbol of the party/individual candidate."
Personal life
"Wolfe was born and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.[3] He has described himself as ""very shy"" while growing up.[2] His partner is fellow actress Kissa Sins.[1] He currently resides in Las Vegas, Nevada."
Awards and nominations
List of accolades received by Johnny Sins Awards and nominations Award Won Nominated AVN Award 2 19 Pornhub Award 1 0 XBIZ Award 1 10 XRCO Award 0 4 Total numbers of wins and nominations Totals 2 33
"Steven Wolfe (born December 31, 1978), known professionally as Johnny Sins, is a pornographic actor, director, and Internet personality.[6] He has received nominations for numerous adult industry awards, including the AVN Award for Male Performer of the Year twice.[2][8] He is consistently among the most popular pornography searches.[9][5][11][12]"
"After graduating college, Wolfe got a job working in construction six days a week.[13] In 2006, he quit and moved to Los Angeles, California, to enter the adult film industry.[13] His first gigs were through Craigslist ads.[13] Wolfe has been described as a ""go-to guy"" for the production studio Brazzers,[7] performing in 1,055 scenes for the company as of January 26, 2019.[2] He performed in about 2,300 videos in his pornographic career.[4]"
Logo of the production company of Johnny Sins
"In early 2017, Wolfe and actress Kissa Sins launched their YouTube channel SinsTV, which chronicles their day-to-day lives and features sex advice.[5][22] To date, the channel has accumulated over nine hundred thousand subscribers. A video of Wolfe trying out various Turkish snacks briefly became the top YouTube video in Turkey.[3][10][23]"
"In July 2018, an image of Wolfe, along with several other notable adult stars, was painted on the side of a bus that traveled around Kerala, India.[24][25] The mural was part of a marketing campaign aimed to boost college tour rides.[24]"
Wolfe received the award for Most Popular Male Performer by Women at the inaugural Pornhub Awards;[26][27] winners were determined by users' streaming data.[26]
"Baijayant ""Jay"" Panda is an Indian BJP politician, national vice president, official spokesperson and former member of Lok Sabha from Kendrapara constituency."
"Elected from the Kendrapara constituency with a BJD ticket, Panda was suspended from the Biju Janata Dal party for alleged anti-party activities on 24 January 2018 and resigned from BJD on 28 May 2018[1]. He said he was ""shocked"" and denied the charges against him as ""false and baseless."" He also alleged there was a conspiracy against him.[2]. Previously, he had served in the indirectly elected Rajya Sabha, from 2000 to 2009. He joined BJP on 4 March 2019 at New Delhi.[3]"
Early life
"He was born on 12 January 1964 in Cuttack to Bansidhar Panda and Ila Panda. He studied in the Michigan Technological University. With a background in Engineering and Management, he went on to work in the corporate sector before joining politics. He assisted the late Biju Patnaik and subsequently Naveen Patnaik, who founded the Biju Janata Dal party."
He married Jagi Mangat Panda on 13 August 1994 who is an industrialist and is currently the managing director of Ortel Communications Ltd.[4][2]
Denotes films that have not yet been released
"Year Film Role Director Co-Artist Production 2011 Shotru Pooja Raj Chakraborty Jeet Eskay Movies 2013 Khoka 420 Megha Rajiv Kumar Biswas Dev, Subhashree Ganguly Khiladi Pooja Ashok Pati Ankush Hazra 2014 Action Herself Sayantan Mukherjee Special appearance in ""Chicken Tandoori"" Song with Om TS Production Yoddha : The Warrior Herself Raj Chakraborty Special appearance in ""Desi Chhori"" Song with Dev Shree Venkatesh Films Sondhey Namar Age Rupsa Ritabrata Bhattacharya Rahul Bose, Rituparna Sengupta, Palash Sen 2015 Jamai 420 Priyanka Rabi Kinnagi Soham Chakraborty, Hiran Chatterjee, Ankush Hazra, Payel Sarkar, Mimi Chakrabarty Shree Venkatesh Films & Surinder Films Har Har Byomkesh Shakuntala Arindam Sil Abir Chatterjee, Ritwick Chakraborty, Sohini Sarkar 2016 Power[1] Shruti (cameo) Rajiv Kumar Biswas Jeet, Sayantika Banerjee Kelor Kirti Urvashi Raja Chanda Dev, Jisshu Sengupta, Ankush Hazra, Mimi Chakraborty, Koushani Mukherjee & Sayantika Banerjee Love Express Neelasha / Neel Rajiv Kumar Biswas Dev Zulfiqar Rani Talapatra (Cleopatra) Srijit Mukherji Prosenjit Chatterjee, Dev, Parambrata Chatterjee, Jishu Sengupta, Ankush Hazra, Koushik Sen, Paoli Dam & Rahul Banerjee Shree Venkatesh Films Haripada Bandwala Sweety Pathikrit Basu Ankush Hazra 2017 One Megha Birsa Dasgupta Prosenjit Chatterjee & Yash Dasgupta Ami Je Ke Tomar Esha Ravi Kinagi Ankush Hazra & Sayantika Banerjee Bolo Dugga Maiki Uma Raj Chakraborty Ankush Hazra 2018 Uma Herself Srijit Mukherji Special Appearance Crisscross Meher Birsa Dasgupta Mimi Chakraborty, Jaya Ahsan, Sohini Sarkar, & Priyanka Sarkar Naqaab Disha Rajiv Kumar Biswas Shakib Khan & Sayantika Banerjee 2019 Seven Ruhi Shagufta Rafique Yash Dasgupta"
Awards
Nusrat is the winner of Fair One Miss Kolkata 2010. She received Star Jalsha Poribar award for best jodi with Ankush Hazra in Jamai 420.[1][2]
"Nusrat Jahan (born 8 January 1990) is an Indian film actress and model who predominantly works in Bengali cinema.[1][2][3] She joined active politics in 2019. Jahan's screen debut was in Raj Chakraborty's Shotru. She then appeared in the film Khoka 420, under the banner Eskay Movies. Her other notable movies include Khiladi, with Ankush Hazra, Sondhe Namar Agey, with Rahul Bose and Power, with Jeet under the banner of Shree Venkatesh Films. She won the title of Fair One Miss Kolkata 2010."
Early life and education
"Jahan was born in a Bengali Muslim family in Kolkata, West Bengal, India.[citation needed] She completed her schooling from Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Kolkata and then completed her B.Com. degree from Bhawanipur College, Kolkata.[1]"
Career
"Nusrat Jahan started her modeling career after winning the beauty contest Fair-one Miss Kolkata in 2010. She made her Tollywood debut in film Shotru with Jeet. After a year of hiatus, she starred in her second film Khoka 420, with Dev and Subhoshree. Her next release of that year was Khiladi, opposite Ankush Hazra. After that, she appeared in two item songs, namely ""Chicken Tandoori"", from Action and ""Desi Chhori"", from Yoddha - The Warrior both of which were instant hits and became chartbusters. She was then seen in Sondhe Namar Agey, with co-star Rahul Bose. In 2015, she featured in the comedy film Jamai 420, opposite Ankush Hazra and an ensemble cast including Payel Sarkar, Mimi Chakraborty, Soham Chakraborty and Hiran. She was also a part of the theme song of BCL (Bengal Celebrity League) for the team ""Midnapoor Mighities"" with Dev and Sayantika Banerjee. Her next and last film of 2015 was Har Har Byomkesh, released in December 2015. The movie was a huge box office success. In 2016, she appeared in director Rajib Biswas' film Power, with Jeet and Sayantika Banerjee. That same year, she starred in the comedy film Kelor Kirti, with Dev Adhikari, Jishu Sengupta, Ankush Hazra, Mimi Chakraborty, Koushani Mukherjee and Sayantika Banerjee. Later that year, she was seen in Love Express, opposite Deepak Adhikari and after that in Zulfiqar, directed by Srijit Mukherjee. Zulfiqar was among the top earning films of 2016. She ended the year 2016 with the comedy film Haripada Bandwala, with Ankush Hazra under the direction of Pathikrit Basu. In 2017, she was first seen in One, with Prosenjit Chatterjee and Yash Dasgupta, which was directed by Birsha Dasgupta. In May 2017, her next film Ami Je Ke Tomar was released. On 22 September 2017, her next movie Bolo Dugga Maiki was released. 2018, she acted in Uma as a guest, then she took place in Crisscross directed by Birsa Dasgupta & after that Rajiv Kumar Biswas selected her for the film Naqaab with Shakib Khan and Sayantika Banerjee. Next she danced in the song (Joy Joy Durga Maa) composed & featured by Jeet Gannguli. World famous cricketer Sourav Ganguly, sweet actress Subhashree Ganguly, Mimi Chakraborty, Nusrat Jahan & Handsome actor Bonny Sengupta were shown in the screen. This was released on the behalf of Captain TMT Bar advertise."
Political career
"On 12 March 2019, West Bengal Chief Minister and president of Trinamool Congress party Mamata Banerjee announced that Jahan would contest the upcoming general election from Basirhat constituency.[1]"
Filmography
"Odia ଓଡ଼ିଆ, Oṛiā Pronunciation [oɽɪˈaː] Native to India Region Odisha Ethnicity Odias Native speakers 37.5 million (2011)[1] Language family Indo-European Indo-Iranian Indo-Aryan Eastern Odia languages Odia Writing system Odia script Odia Braille Official status Official language in  India (Odisha[2] and Jharkhand) Language codes ISO 639-1 or ISO 639-2 ori ISO 639-3 ori – inclusive code Individual codes: ory – Odia spv – Sambalpuri ort – Adivasi Odia (Kotia) dso – Desiya (duplicate of [ort])[3] Glottolog macr1269  partial match[4] Linguasphere 59-AAF-x"
"In financial markets, a share is a unit used as mutual funds, limited partnerships, and real estate investment trusts.[1] The owner of shares in the corporation/company is a shareholder (or stockholder) of the corporation.[2] A share is an indivisible unit of capital, expressing the ownership relationship between the company and the shareholder. The denominated value of a share is its face value, and the total of the face value of issued shares represent the capital of a company,[3] which may not reflect the market value of those shares."
"The income received from the ownership of shares is a dividend. The process of purchasing and selling shares often involves going through a stockbroker as a middle man.[4] There are different types of shares such as equity shares, preference shares, bonus shares, right shares, employees stock option plans and sweat equity shares."
"Year Film Role Notes 2018 Kedarnath Mandakani ""Mukku"" Mishra Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut 2018 Simmba Shagun Sathe 2020 Untitled Imtiaz Ali’s next TBA Filming[42][43]"
"Sara Ali Khan (pronounced [saːɾaː əˈli ˈxaːn]; born 12 August 1995) is an Indian actress who works in Hindi films. A member of the Pataudi family, she is the daughter of actors Amrita Singh and Saif Ali Khan and the paternal granddaughter of Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi and Sharmila Tagore. After graduating from Columbia University, Khan ventured into acting by playing the leading lady in the 2018 films Kedarnath and Simmba. Both films were commercially successful and the former earned her the Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut."
Early life and background
"Sara Ali Khan was born on 12 August 1995 in Mumbai to Saif Ali Khan, son of Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi and Sharmila Tagore, and Amrita Singh; both actors of the Hindi film industry.[3][4] A member of the Pataudi family,[5] she is also the maternal granddaughter of Rukhsana Sultana and Shivinder Singh Virk.[6] She has a younger brother, Ibrahim Ali Khan.[7] Her half-brother, Taimur Ali Khan, is Saif's son from his second marriage to Kareena Kapoor.[8] Khan is of predominantly Bengali and Pathan descent on her father's side, and of Punjabi descent on her mother's side.[9][10]"
"Kushabhadra River forms the complex of river systems which form the distributaries of the Mahanadi River. It branches off from the Kuakhai River, which is a distributary of the Mahanadi, at Balianta and flows in a south western direction towards Nimapara and Gop for 46–50 miles before sinking into the Bay of Bengal near Ramachandi Temple, 15 miles east of Puri in the Puri District of Odisha.[1][2]"
"Dhanua River is its main tributary, bringing in water to its parent body."
"A geographical indication (GI) is a name or sign used on certain products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin (e.g. a town, region, or country). India, as a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), enacted the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999 has come into force with effect from 15 September 2003. GIs have been defined under Article 22(1) of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights(TRIPS) Agreement as: ""Indications which identify a good as originating in the territory of a member, or a region or a locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or characteristic of the good is essentially attributable to its geographic origin.""[1]"
"The GI tag ensures that none other than those registered as authorised users (or at least those residing inside the geographic territory) are allowed to use the popular product name. Darjeeling tea became the first GI tagged product in India, in 2004-05, since then by october 2018, 321 had been added to the list.[2] These are listed below."
"Madhya Pradesh was recently granted GI tag for the Kadaknath chicken breed on 30th july 2018.The Gramin Vikas Trust of Krishak Bharati Cooperative (KRIBHCO) had sought GI tag for the protein-rich and black coloured meat of Kadaknath variety of chicken, which is mainly reared in Jhabua."
"If all goes well, after 120 days from the date of the publication of the journal, the state would get the certificate, probably in the last week of July. Officials said as per a set procedure the time is given for raising objection after publication in March so that there is no claim after the final certificate is issued."
Registered Geographical Indications
Following is the list of registered geographical indications in India:[3][4]
"S. No. Application No. Geographical Indication Type State / Country 1 1 Darjeeling Tea (Word) Agricultural West Bengal 2 2 Darjeeling Tea (Logo) Agricultural West Bengal 3 3 Aranmula Kannadi Handicraft Kerala 4 4 Pochampally Ikat Handicraft Telangana 5 5 Salem Fabric Handicraft Tamil Nadu 6 6 Payyannur Pavithra Ring Handicraft Kerala 7 7 Chanderi Sarees Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 8 8 Solapur Chaddar Handicraft Maharashtra 9 9 Solapur Terry Towel Handicraft Maharashtra 10 10 Kotpad Handloom fabric Handicraft Odisha 11 11 Mysore Silk Handicraft Karnataka 12 12 Kota Doria Handicraft Rajasthan 13 13 Mysore Agarbathi Manufactured Karnataka 14 15 Kancheepuram Silk Handicraft Tamil Nadu 15 16 Bhavani Jamakkalam Handicraft Tamil Nadu 16 17 Navara Rice Agricultural Kerala 17 18 Mysore Agarbathi (Logo) Manufactured Karnataka 18 19 Kullu Shawl Handicraft Himachal Pradesh 19 20 Bidriware Handicraft Karnataka 20 21 Madurai Sungudi Handicraft Tamil Nadu 21 22 Orissa Ikat Handicraft Odisha 22 23 Channapatna Toys & Dolls Handicraft Karnataka 23 24 Mysore Rosewood Inlay Handicraft Karnataka 24 25 Kangra Tea Agricultural Himachal Pradesh 25 26 Coimbatore Wet Grinder Manufactured Tamil Nadu 26 27 Phulkari Handicraft Punjab, Haryana & Rajasthan 27 28 Srikalahasthi Kalamkari Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 28 29 Mysore Sandalwood Oil Manufactured Karnataka 29 30 Mysore Sandal soap Manufactured Karnataka 30 31 Kasuti Embroidery Handicraft Karnataka 31 32 Mysore Traditional Paintings Handicraft Karnataka 32 33 Coorg Orange Agricultural Karnataka 33 34 Mysore Betel leaf Agricultural Karnataka 34 35 Nanjanagud Banana Agricultural Karnataka 35 36 Palakkadan Matta Rice Agricultural Kerala 36 37 Madhubani Paintings Handicraft Bihar 37 44 Kondapalli Bommallu Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 38 46 Kashmir Pashmina Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 39 47 Thanjavur Paintings Handicraft Tamil Nadu 40 48 Kashmir Sozani Craft Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 41 49 Malabar Pepper, merged With Application No. 56 Agricultural Kerala 42 50 Allahabad Surkha Guava Agricultural Uttar Pradesh 43 51 Kani Shawl Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 44 52 Nakshi Kantha Handicraft West Bengal 45 53 Silver Filigree of Karimnagar Handicraft Telangana 46 54 Alleppey Coir Handicraft Kerala 47 55 Muga Silk of Assam Handicraft Assam 48 56 Tellechery Pepper, now merged With Application No. 49 Agricultural Kerala 49 57 Brass Broidered Coconut shell crafts of Kerala Handicraft Kerala 50 58 Screw Pine Crafts of Kerala Handicraft Kerala 51 59 Maddalam of Palakkad Handicraft Kerala 52 60 Ganjifa cards of Mysore Handicraft Karnataka 53 61 Navalgund durries Handicraft Karnataka 54 62 Karnataka Bronze Ware Handicraft Karnataka 55 63 Thanjavur Art Plate Handicraft Tamil Nadu 56 64 Swamimalai Bronze Icons Handicraft Tamil Nadu 57 65 Temple Jewellery of Nagercoil Handicraft Tamil Nadu 59 66 Blue Pottery of Jaipur Handicraft Rajasthan 60 67 Molela Clay Work Handicraft Rajasthan 61 68 Kathputlis of Rajasthan Handicraft Rajasthan 62 69 Mysore Malligae Agricultural Karnataka 63 70 Udupi Malligae Agricultural Karnataka 64 71 Hadagali Malligae Agricultural Karnataka 65 72 Alleppey Green Cardamom Agricultural Kerala 66 73 Applique (Khatwa) Work of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 67 74 Sujini Embroidery Work of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 68 75 Sikki Grass Work of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 69 76 Ilkal Sarees Handicraft Karnataka 70 77 Molakalmuru Sarees Handicraft Karnataka 71 78 Coorg Green Cardamom Agricultural Karnataka 72 79 Chamba Rumal Handicraft Himachal Pradesh 73 80 Dharwad Pedha Foodstuff Karnataka 74 81 Pokkali Rice Agricultural Kerala 75 82 Bastar Iron Craft Handicraft Chhattisgarh 76 83 Bastar Dhokra Handicraft Chhattisgarh 77 84 Bastar Wooden Craft Handicraft Chhattisgarh 78 85 Monsooned Malabar Arabica Coffee Agricultural Karnataka 79 86 Pipli Applique Work Handicraft Odisha 80 87 Konark Stone Carving Handicraft Odisha 81 88 Orissa Pattachitra Textile Odisha 82 89 Budithi Bell & Brass Metal Craft Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 83 90 Machilipatnam Kalamkari Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 84 91 Nirmal Toys and Crafts Handicraft Telangana 85 92 Arani Silk Handicraft Tamil Nadu 86 93 Kovai Kora Cotton Sarees Handicraft Tamil Nadu 87 94 Salem Silk Handicraft Tamil Nadu 88 95 East India Leather Manufactured Tamil Nadu 89 96 Thanjavur Doll Handicraft Tamil Nadu 90 97 Leather Toys of Indore Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 91 98 Bagh Prints of Madhya Pradesh Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 92 99 Banaras Brocades and Sarees Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 93 100 Sankheda Furniture Handicraft Gujarat 94 101 Agates of Cambay Handicraft Gujarat 95 102 Bell Metal Ware of Datia and Tikamgarh Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 96 103 Kutch Embroidery Handicraft Gujarat 97 104 Santiniketan Leather Goods Handicraft West Bengal 98 105 Nirmal Furniture Handicraft Telangana 99 106 Nirmal Paintings Handicraft Telangana 100 107 Andhra Pradesh Leather Puppetry Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 101 108 Pipli Applique Craft, now merged with Application No.86 - Pipli Applique Work Handicraft Odisha 102 109 Naga Mircha Agricultural Nagaland 103 110 Eathomozhy Tall Coconut Agricultural Tamil Nadu 104 111 Laxman Bhog Mango Agricultural West Bengal 105 112 Khirsapati (Himsagar) Mango Agricultural West Bengal 106 113 Fazli Mango grown in the district of Malda Agricultural West Bengal 107 114 Monsooned Malabar Robusta Coffee Agricultural Karnataka 108 115 Assam (Orthodox) Logo Agricultural Assam 109 116 Nilgiri (Orthodox) Agricultural Tamil Nadu 110 117 Nilgiri (Orthodox) Logo, now merged with Application No. 116 Agricultural Assam 111 118 Assam (Orthodox) Logo, now merged with GI Application No. 115 Agricultural Tamil Nadu 112 119 Lucknow Chikan Craft Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 113 120 Feni Manufactured Goa 114 121 Tirupati Laddu Foodstuff Andhra Pradesh 115 122 Uppada Jamdani Sarees Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 116 123 Nashik Valley Wine Manufactured Maharashtra 117 124 Virupakshi Hill Banana Agricultural Tamil Nadu 118 125 Mango Malihabadi Dusseheri Agricultural Uttar Pradesh 119 126 Sirumalai Hill Banana Agricultural Tamil Nadu 120 127 Tangaliya Shawl Handicraft Gujarat 121 128 Puneri Pagadi Handicraft Maharashtra 122 129 Bydagi Chilli Agricultural Karnataka 123 130 Vazhakkulam Pineapple Agricultural Kerala 124 131 Devanahalli Pomello Agricultural Karnataka 125 132 Appemidi Mango Agricultural Karnataka 126 133 Kamalapur Red Banana Agricultural Karnataka 127 134 Sandur Lambani Embroidery Handicraft Karnataka 128 135 Toda Embroidery Handicraft Tamil Nadu 129 136 Khandua Saree and Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 130 137 Gadwal Sarees Handicraft Telangana 131 138 Santipur Saree Handicraft West Bengal 133 141 Vazhakkulam Pineapple, now merged With Application No. 130 Agricultural Kerala 134 142 Bikaneri Bhujia Foodstuff Rajasthan 135 143 Guntur Sannam Chilli Agricultural Andhra Pradesh 136 144 Cannanore Home Furnishings Handicraft Kerala 137 145 Basmati Agricultural India 138 146 Napa Valley Manufactured USA 139 147 Sanganeri Hand Block Print Handicraft Rajasthan 140 148 Hand made Carpet of Bhadohi - Mirzapur Region of UP Handmade Carpets Uttar Pradesh 141 149 Kinnauri Shawl Handicraft Himachal Pradesh 142 150 Paithani Saree & Fabrics Handicraft Maharashtra 143 151 Scotch Whisky Manufactured United Kingdom 144 152 Balaramapuram Sarees and Fine Cotton Fabrics Handicraft Kerala 145 153 Paithan's Paithani, now merged with GI Application No. 150 Handicraft Maharashtra 146 154 Mahabaleshwar Strawberry Agricultural Maharashtra 147 155 Firozabad Glass (Word Mark) Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 148 156 Firozabad Glass (Logo Mark, now merged With Application No. 155 Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 149 157 Kannauj Perfume (Word Mark) Manufactured Uttar Pradesh 150 158 Kannauj Perfume (Logo Mark), now merged With Application No. 157 Manufactured Uttar Pradesh 151 159 Kanpur Saddlery (Word Mark) Manufactured Uttar Pradesh 152 160 Kanpur Saddlery (Logo Mark), now merged With Application No. 159 Manufactured Uttar Pradesh 153 161 Moradabad Metal Craft (Word Mark) Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 154 162 Moradabad Metal Craft (Logo Mark), now merged With Application No. 161 Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 155 163 Central Travancore Jaggery Agricultural Kerala 156 164 Prosciutto di Parma ""Parma Ham"" Food Stuff Italy 157 165 Nashik Grapes Agricultural Maharashtra 158 167 Gopalpur Tussar Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 159 170 Kasaragod Sarees Handicraft Kerala 160 171 Surat Zari Craft Handicraft Gujarat 161 172 Champa Silk Saree and Fabrics Handicraft Chhattisgarh 162 173 Baluchari Saree Handicraft West Bengal 163 174 Kachchh Shawls Handicraft Gujarat 164 176 Dhaniakhali Saree Handicraft West Bengal 165 177 Varanasi Glass Beads Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 166 178 Khurja Pottery Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 167 179 Kuthampully Sarees and Fine Cotton Fabrics Handicraft Kerala 168 180 Bhagalpur Silks Handicraft Bihar 169 181 Kashmir Paper Machie Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 170 182 Kashmir Walnut Wood Carving Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 171 183 Bagru Hand Block Print Handicraft Rajasthan 172 184 Saharanpur Wood Craft (Word Mark with Logo) Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 173 185 Gir Kesar Mango Agricultural Gujarat 174 186 Wayanad Jeerakasala Rice Agricultural Kerala 175 187 Wayanad Gandhakasala Rice Agricultural Kerala 176 188 Siddipet Gollabama Handicraft Telangana 177 189 Venkatagiri Sarees Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 178 190 Cheriyal Paintings Handicraft Telangana 179 191 Kota Doria (Logo) Handicraft Rajasthan 180 192 Bhalia Wheat Agricultural Gujarat 181 193 Hyderabad Haleem Food Stuff Telangana 182 194 Pembarthi Metal Craft Handicraft Telangana 183 195 Pattamadai Pai (Pattamadai Mats) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 184 196 Nachiarkoil Kuthuvilakku (Nachiarkoil Lamp) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 185 197 Maheshwar Sarees & Fabric Natural Goods Rajasthan 186 198 Mangalagiri Sarees and Fabrics Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 187 199 Udupi Mattu Gulla Brinjal Agricultural Karnataka 188 200 Chettinad Kottan Handicraft Tamil Nadu 189 201 Villianur Terracotta Works Handicraft Puducherry 190 202 Thirukannur Papier Mache Craft Handicraft Puducherry 191 203 Bobbili Veena Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 192 204 Khatamband Handicraft Jammu & Kashmir 193 205 Kalanamak Rice Agricultural Uttar Pradesh 194 207 Dhalapathar Parda & Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 195 208 Sambalpuri Bandha Saree & Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 196 209 Thanjavur Veenai (Tanjore Veena) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 197 210 Guledgudd Khana Textile Karnataka 198 211 Bangalore Blue Grapes Agricultural Karnataka 199 212 Bangalore Rose Onion Agricultural Karnataka 200 213 Kinhal Toys Handicraft Karnataka 201 214 Narayanpet Handloom Sarees Handicraft Telangana 202 215 Dharmavaram Handloom Pattu Sarees and Paavadais Textile Andhra Pradesh 203 217 Bomkai Saree & Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 204 219 Habaspuri Saree & Fabrics Handicraft Odisha 205 220 Berhampur Phoda Kumbha Saree & Joda Textile Odisha 206 221 Jamnagari Bandhani Handicraft Gujarat 207 224 Udupi Saree Textile Karnataka 208 225 Chendamangalam Dhoties & Set Mundu Handicraft Kerala 209 226 Porto Manufactured Portugal 210 227 Douro Manufactured Portugal 211 228 Ganjam Kewda Rooh Agricultural Odisha 212 229 Ganjam Kewda Flower Agricultural Odisha 213 230 Cognac Manufactured France 214 232 Patan Patola Handicraft Gujarat 215 233 Agra Durrie Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 216 234 Farukkhabad Cotton Print Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 217 236 Lucknow Zardozi Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 218 237 Banaras Brocades and Sarees (Logo) Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 219 238 Madurai Malli Agricultural Tamil Nadu 220 239 Warli Painting Handicraft Maharashtra 221 240 Kolhapur Jaggery Agricultural Maharashtra 222 241 Banaganapalle Mangoes Agricultural Andhra Pradesh 223 242 Kaipad Rice Agricultural Kerala 224 243 Tequila Manufactured Mexico 225 244 Thawa Art Work (Gold Work on Glass) Handicraft Rajasthan 226 349 Asiago Cheese Italy 227 351 Parmigiano Reggiano Cheese Italy 228 371 Shaphee Lanphee Textile Manipur 229 372 Wangkhei Phee Textile Manipur 230 373 Moirang Phee Textile Manipur 231 374 Naga Tree Tomato Agricultural Nagaland 232 375 Arunachal Orange Agricultural Arunachal Pradesh 233 376 Sikkim Large Cardamom Agricultural Sikkim 234 377 Mizo Chilli Agricultural Mizoram 235 381 Kangra Paintings Handicraft Himachal Pradesh 236 382 Jaynagarer Moa Foodstuff West Bengal 237 383 Kullu Shawl (Logo) Textile Himachal Pradesh 238 384 Muga Silk of Assam (Logo - connected with GI-55) Handicraft Assam 239 385 Nagpur Orange Agricultural Maharashtra 240 386 Orissa Pattachitra (Logo) Handicraft Odisha 241 387 Bastar Dhokra (Logo) Handicraft Chhattisgarh 242 388 Bell Metal ware of Datia and Tikamgarh (Logo) Handicraft Odisha 243 389 Meerut Scissors Manufactured Uttar Pradesh 244 390 Karvath Kati Sarees & Fabrics Agricultural Maharashtra 245 397 Banaras Gulabi Meenakari Craft Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 246 398 Benaras Metal Repouse Craft Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 247 399 Leather Toys of Indore (Logo) Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 248 402 Kuthampully Dhoties & Set Mundu Clothing Kerala 249 405 Makrana Marble Natural Rajasthan 250 413 Kangra Painting (Merged with Application No.381) Handicraft Himachal Pradesh 251 426 Mahabalipuram Stone Sculpture Handicraft Tamil Nadu 252 433 Bandar Laddu Food Stuff Andhra Pradesh 253 434 Ratlami Sev Foodstuff Madhya Pradesh 254 435 Assam Karbi Anglong Ginger Agricultural Assam 255 436 Tripura Queen Pineapple Agricultural Tripura 256 437 Memong Narang Agricultural Meghalaya 257 438 Tezpur Litchi Agricultural Assam 258 439 Joha Rice of Assam Agricultural Assam 259 457 Varanasi Wooden Lacquer Ware & Toys Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 260 458 Mirzapur Handmade Dari Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 261 459 Nizamabad Black Pottery Handicraft Uttar Pradesh 262 465 Khasi Mandarin Agricultural Meghalaya 263 466 Kachai Lemon Agricultural Manipur 264 470 Ajara Ghansal Rice Agricultural Uttar Pradesh 265 471 Waigaon Turmeric Agricultural Maharashtra 266 472 Mangalwedha Jowar Agricultural Maharashtra 267 473 Bhiwapur Chilli Agricultural Maharashtra 268 474 Sindhudurg & Ratnagiri Kokum Agricultural Maharashtra 269 476 Waghya Ghevada Agricultural Maharashtra 270 477 Navapur Tur Dal Agricultural Maharashtra 271 478 Ambemohar Rice Agricultural Maharashtra 272 479 Chengalikodan Nendran Banana Agricultural Kerala 273 481 Durgi Stone Carvings Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 274 482 Etikoppaka Toys Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 275 489 Vengurla Cashew Agricultural Maharashtra 276 490 Sangli Raisins Agricultural Maharashtra 277 491 Lasalgaon Onion Agricultural Maharashtra 278 493 Dahanu Gholvad Chikoo Agricultural Maharashtra 279 494 Beed Custard Apple Agricultural Maharashtra 280 495 Jalna Sweet Orange Agricultural Maharashtra 281 498 Jalgaon Banana Agricultural Maharashtra 282 499 Marathwada Kesar Mango Agricultural Maharashtra 283 500 Purandar Fig Agricultural Maharashtra 284 501 Jalgaon Bharit Brinjal Agricultural Maharashtra 285 502 Solapur Pomegranate Agricultural Maharashtra 286 503 Prosecco Manufactured Italy 287 505 Bagh Prints of Madhya Pradesh (Logo) Handicraft Madhya Pradesh 288 507 Sankheda Furniture (Logo) Handicraft Gujarat 289 508 Agates of Cambay (Logo) Handicraft Gujarat 290 509 Kutch Embroidery (Logo) Handicraft Gujarat 291 510 Karnataka Bronzeware (Logo) Handicraft Karnataka 292 511 Ganjifa Cards of Mysore (Logo) Handicraft Karnataka 293 512 Navalgund Durries (Logo) Handicraft Karnataka 294 513 Thanjavur Art Plate (Logo) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 295 514 Swamimalai Bronze Icons (Logo) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 296 515 Temple Jewellery of Nagercoil (Logo) Handicraft Tamil Nadu 297 516 Palakkad Maddalam Kerala (Logo) Handicraft Kerala 298 517 Brass Broidered Coconut Shell Crafts of Kerala (Logo) Handicraft Kerala 299 518 Screw Pine Craft of Kerala (Logo) Handicraft Kerala 300 520 Uttarakhand Tejpat Spice Uttarakhand 301 522 Udayagiri Wooden Cutlery Handicraft Andhra Pradesh 302 525 Bardhaman Sitabhog Food Stuff West Bengal 303 526 Bardhaman Mihidana Foodstuff West Bengal 304 527 Kashmiri Hand Knotted Carpet Handicraft Jammu and Kashmir 305 530 Tulaipanji Rice Agricultural West Bengal 306 531 Gobindabhog Rice Agricultural West Bengal 307 532 Mysore Silk (Logo) Handicraft Karnataka 308 533 Banglar Rasogolla Food Stuff West Bengal 309 536 Sikki Grass Products of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 310 537 Applique (Khatwa) Work of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 311 538 Sujini Embroidery Work of Bihar Handicraft Bihar 312 539 Molela Clay Work of Rajasthan (Logo) Handicraft Rajasthan 313 540 Blue Pottery of Jaipur (Logo) Handicraft Rajasthan 314 541 Kathputlis of Rajasthan (Logo) Handicraft Rajasthan 315 542 Chakhesang Shawls Textile Nagaland 316 562 Pochampally Ikat (Logo) Handicraft Telangana 317 543 Nilambur Teak Forest Produce Kerala 318 610 Kandhamal Haladi Spice Odisha 319 378 kadaknath black chicken Endemic Species Madhya Pradesh 320 523 Adilabad Dokra Handicraft Telangana 321 523 Warangal Durries Handicraft Telangana 322 552 Shahi Litchi Food stuff Bihar 323 553 Katarni Rice Food stuff Bihar 324 551 Zardalu Mango Food stuff Bihar 325 554 Magahi Paan Food stuff Bihar 326 555 Erode Turmeric Medicine Tamilnadu 327 556 Marayoor jaggery Food stuff kerala 328 557 Coorg arabica coffee Beverage Karnataka 329 558 Wayanad Robusta coffee Beverage Kerala 330 559 Chikmagalur Arabica coffee Beverage Karnataka 331 560 Bababudangiri arabica coffee Beverage Karnataka 332 561 Araku valley Arabica coffee Beverage Andhra pradesh 333 562 Sirsi Supari plantation cro/beetle nut Foodstuff Karnataka 334 563 Maryoor gud Food stuff Kerala 335 Kandhmal Haldi Agricultural Odisha 336 Coorg Arabica coffee Agricultural Karnataka 337 Wayanad Robusta Coffee Agricultural Kerala 338 Chikkamangalure Arabica Coffee Agricultural Karnataka 339 Araku Valley Arabica Coffee Agricultural Andhra Pradesh 340 Baba Budangiri Arabica Coffee Agricultural Karnataka 341 Konkan Alphonso (mango) Agricultural Maharashtra"
External links
"The first direct image of a black hole, imaged by the Event Horizon Telescope and published in April 2019"
"Bouman led the development of an algorithm for imaging black holes, known as Continuous High-resolution Image Reconstruction using Patch priors, or CHIRP.[20][2][21] CHIRP inspired image validation procedures used in acquiring the first image of a black hole in April 2019,[22] and Bouman played a significant role in the project[2][23] by verifying images, selecting parameters for filtering images taken by the Event Horizon Telescope[24] and participating in the development of a robust imaging framework that compared the results of different image reconstruction techniques.[25] Her group is analyzing the Event Horizon Telescope's images to learn more about general relativity in a strong gravitational field.[18]"
"After publication of the black hole image, a photo of Bouman smiling in front of a computer screen appeared widely in news outlets and social media[1][26][27][28] and controversy ensued over whether the role Bouman played was overstated by the media.[2] Bouman became subject to harassment online, to the extent that her colleague Andrew Chael made a statement on Twitter criticizing ""awful and sexist attacks on my colleague and friend Katie Bouman"", including attempts to undermine her contributions by crediting him solely with the work in fact accomplished by a team that included Bouman, Chael, and numerous others.[5][6][29][30]"
Katherine Louise Bouman (/baʊˈmæn/; born 1989/1990)[1] is an American computer scientist working in the field of imaging. She was a member of the Event Horizon Telescope team that captured the first image of a black hole.[2][3] She is expected to join the faculty of California Institute of Technology in June 2019 as an assistant professor of computing and mathematical sciences.[4]
Early life and education
"Bouman grew up in West Lafayette, Indiana, and graduated from West Lafayette Junior-Senior High School in 2007. Her father, Charles Bouman, is a professor of electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering at Purdue University.[5] As a high school student, she conducted imaging research at Purdue University.[5] She first learned about the Event Horizon Telescope in school in 2007.[6]"
Bouman studied electrical engineering at the University of Michigan and graduated summa cum laude in 2011. She earned her master's degree (2013) and doctoral degree (2017) in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).[7]
"At MIT, she was a member of the Haystack Observatory.[9] She was supported by a National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship. Her master's thesis, Estimating Material Properties of Fabric through the Observation of Motion,[10] was awarded the Ernst Guillemin Award for best Master's Thesis.[11] Her Ph.D. dissertation, Extreme imaging via physical model inversion: seeing around corners and imaging black holes, was supervised by William T. Freeman.[12] Prior to receiving her doctoral degree, Bouman delivered a TEDx talk, How to Take a Picture of a Black Hole, which explained algorithms that could be used to capture the first image of a black hole.[8][13]"
"After earning her doctorate, Bouman joined Harvard University as a postdoctoral fellow on the Event Horizon Telescope Imaging team.[14][15][16] She will join the California Institute of Technology as an assistant professor in June 2019, where she plans to work on new systems for computational imaging using computer vision and machine learning.[17][5][19]"
"Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) in India is the fund raised to provide support for people affected by natural and man made disasters. Natural disasters covered under this include flood, cyclone, earthquake etc. Man made disasters include major accidents, acid attacks, riots etc. The fund is also allotted to the people for treatment like cancer, kidney transplantation, heart surgery etc. The fund was first consolidated during the time of the first prime minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru.[1][2]"
Partition of British India occurred in 1947 along with the formation of two dominions called Pakistan and India.[1] Partition resulted in mass violence and people were moving across borders in all means. Thus to support the displaced people from Pakistan Jawaharlal Nehru created a fund collected from public in January 1948.
The fund is fully collected from the public and has no budgetary allocation from the government.[1] The fund collected is exempted from income tax to drive more people into the initiative.[3] Chairman of the fund is the Prime Minister and he is assisted by joint secretary. The whole of the fund is deposited with scheduled commercial banks and the beneficiaries are identified directly by the Prime Minister from among the beneficiaries.[3][4]
Impact
"The fund was used extensively to provide support for victims of Uttarakhand flood 2013, cyclone in Kerala and Lakshadweep, 2014 violence in Assam, Madhya Pradesh explosion 2015, Tamil Nadu floods 2015 etc.[1]"
"In finance, a loan is the lending of money by one or more individuals, organizations, or other entities to other individuals, organizations etc. The recipient (i.e. the borrower) incurs a debt, and is usually liable to pay interest on that debt until it is repaid, and also to repay the principal amount borrowed."
"The document evidencing the debt, e.g. a promissory note, will normally specify, among other things, the principal amount of money borrowed, the interest rate the lender is charging, and date of repayment. A loan entails the reallocation of the subject asset(s) for a period of time, between the lender and the borrower."
Demand
Subsidized
Concessional
Target markets
Personal
Commercial
Loan payment
"Acting as a provider of loans is one of the main activities of financial institutions such as banks and credit card companies. For other institutions, issuing of debt contracts such as bonds is a typical source of funding."
Abuses in lending
Types of loans
Secured
Unsecured
"On 9 November 2017, TikTok's parent company, ByteDance, spent up to $1 billion to purchase musical.ly, a startup based in Shanghai with an office in Santa Monica, California, owning a popular social media platform targeting the US teenage market.[19][20] Looking forward to leveraging the US digital platform’s young user base, TikTok merged with musical.ly on 2 August 2018 to create a larger video community, with existing accounts and data consolidated into one app, keeping the title TikTok.[20][21][22]"
Expansion in other markets
"As of 2018, TikTok is now available in over 150 markets, and in 75 languages.[23][24] TikTok was downloaded more than 104 million times on Apple's App store during the full first half of 2018, according to data provided to CNBC by Sensor Tower, an app analytics platform based in San Francisco. It surpassed Facebook, YouTube and Instagram to become the world's most downloaded iOS app for that time period.[25][26]"
Features
"The TikTok mobile app allows users to create a short video of themselves which often feature music in the background, can be sped up, slowed down or edited with a filter.[30] To create a music video with the app, users can choose background music from a wide variety of music genres, edit with a filter and record a 15-second video with speed adjustments before uploading it to share with others on TikTok or other social platforms.[31]"
"The app's ""react"" feature allows users to film their reaction to a specific video, over which it is placed in a small window that is movable around the screen.[32] Its ""duet"" feature allows users to film a video aside another video.[33]"
Artificial intelligence
"TikTok employs artificial intelligence to analyse user’s interests and preferences through their interactions with the content, and display a personalized content feed to each user.[36][37]"
Reception
"TikTok became the world's most downloaded app on Apple's App Store in the first half of 2018 with an estimated 104 million downloads, surpassing the downloads recorded by PUBG Mobile, YouTube, WhatsApp and Instagram in the same period.[1]"
"Privacy, cyberbullying and addiction concerns"
"Similar to other platforms,[45] Journalists in several countries have raised privacy concerns about the app, not least because it is popular with children and may expose them to sexual predators.[45][46][47][48]"
"Several users have reported endemic cyberbullying on TikTok,[49][50] including racist and anti-Semitic abuse.[51]"
"Some users may find it hard to stop using TikTok.[52] In April 2018, an addiction-reduction feature was added to Douyin.[52] This encourages users to take a break every 90 minutes.[52] Later in 2018, the feature was rolled out to the TikTok app."
"TikTok, also known as Douyin (Chinese: 抖音; pinyin: Dǒuyīn; literally: 'vibrating sound') in China, is an iOS and Android media app for creating and sharing short videos. The application allows users to create short music videos of 3 to 15 seconds[4][5] and short looping videos of 3 to 60 seconds. It is a leading short video platform in Asia, United States, and other parts of the world.[6]"
Censorship
"On 3 July 2018, TikTok was banned in Indonesia, after the Indonesian government accused it of promulgating ""pornography, inappropriate content and blasphemy.""[57][58][59][60][61] Shortly afterwards, TikTok pledged to task 20 staff with censoring TikTok content in Indonesia,[58] and the ban was lifted on 11 July 2018.[57]"
"In November 2018, the Bangladeshi government blocked the TikTok app's internet access.[62]"
"Also in 2018, Douyin was reprimanded by Chinese media watchdogs for showing ""unacceptable"" content, such as videos depicting adolescent pregnancies.[1]"
"In January 2019, the Chinese government said that it would start to hold app developers like ByteDance responsible for user content shared via apps such as Douyin,[63] and listed 100 types of content that the Chinese government would censor.[64][65]"
"In February 2019, several Indian politicians called for TikTok to be banned or more tightly regulated, after concerns emerged about sexually explicit content, cyberbullying, and deepfakes.[66]"
"Owned by ByteDance, the app was launched as Douyin in China in September 2016[7][8] and introduced to the overseas market as TikTok one year later.[9] In 2018, the application gained popularity and became the most downloaded app in the U.S. in October 2018.[10][11] As of 2018, it is available in over 150 markets, and in 75 languages. In July 2018, the app had more than 500 million users globally.[12]"
History
"On 3 April 2019, the Madras High Court while hearing a PIL had asked the Government of India to ban the app, citing that it ""encourages pornography"". The court also noted that children using the app were at risk of being targeted by sexual predators. The court further asked broadcast media not to telecast any of those videos from the app. The spokesperson for TikTok stated that they were abiding by local laws and were awaiting the copy of the court order before they take action.[85] On 17 April, both Google and Apple removed TikTok from Google Play and the App Store.[86] As the court refused to reconsider the ban, the company stated that they had removed over 6 million videos that violated their content policy and guidelines.[87]"
"On 25 April 2019, the ban was lifted after a court in Tamil Nadu reversed its order of prohibiting downloads of the app from the App Store and Google Play, following a plea from TikTok developer Bytedance Technology.[88][89] India's TikTok ban might have cost the app 15 million new users.[90]"
Further reading
Merging with musical.ly
"Aparajita Sarangi (born 8 October, 1969) is an Indian politician from the Bharatiya Janata Party and the incumbent Member of parliament from Bhubaneshwar.[1][2] A former Odisha cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 1994 batch, Sarangi quit her job and joined the BJP in September, 2018 to contest the 2019 Indian general election.[3] She was fielded against Biju Janata Dal's Arup Patnaik.[4]"
"Sarangi was awarded with the Shakti Samman in 2012. She had last served as the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Rural Development and has also worked as Bhubaneswar Municipal Commissioner and secretary of the state’s mass education department.[5][2] Her husband, Santosh Sarangi, is also an IAS officer of the same batch.[6]"
"Suresh Pujari is an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Bargarh, Odisha in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.[1]"
This list details Chief Ministers of Indian states who have served for longest years consecutively or otherwise.
See also
Nikolay Boykov (Bulgarian: Николай Бойков) is a contemporary Bulgarian writer and literary translator from Hungarian.
External links
"He was born on 26 January 1968 in Vidin, Bulgaria. In 1985, he graduated the Mathematical High School in Vidin and was accepted to study computer science in Sofia University. Later, after studying polytechnics for two semesters in Hungary, he moved to study Hungarian philology in the University of Debrecen, which he graduated in 1994."
From 1998 to 2005 he taught Hungarian language and literature in Sofia University.
Books
"Metaphysics (Free Poetic Society, Sofia, 2000) Poems With Biography (Janet 45, Plovdiv, 2003) Declared in Love (handmade, Sofia, 2005) Letters To Petar (Janet 45, Plovdiv, 2006) The Book of Life (Ciela, Sofia, 2010)"
Selected translations
"Boykov was editor and translator of the selection ""Proses"" by Miklós Mészöly (published in Bulgarian by ""SONM"" in 2003)."
Honoris Causa awards
Awards and records
Keynote speaker
"Achyuta Samanta (born 20 January 1965) is the founder of Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT); Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), which provides free accommodation, food, healthcare, and education from class 1 to post-graduation with vocational training; KIIT International School (KIS), an International Baccalaureate affiliated school, and Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), a medical college."
"He is a promoter of culture and the arts through Kadambini Media Pvt Ltd (KMPL), an organisation he founded. He has been the organiser of Nanhi Pari, a Little Miss India competition, since 2000. He has established 25 spiritual centres and shrines, and is in the process of setting up 'Gandhi Gram' in the memory of Mahatma Gandhi, a tribal museum to showcase tribal life, art and culture, and a centre for yoga and spiritualism. He got Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters (D.Litt.) from Daffodil International University.[2]"
Biography
"Samanta was born to Shri Anadi Charan Samanta and Smt. Nilima Rani Samanta in the village of Kalarabanka in Cuttack District of Odisha in 1965. His father died when Samanta was four, and he grew up in abject poverty with his widowed mother and seven siblings."
"Samanta received an M.Sc in Chemistry from Utkal University. He had a decade-long experience in teaching in colleges, mostly at Maharshi College under Utkal University, in Bhubaneswar as a chemistry lab assistant.[3]"
Educationist
"Achyuta Samanta is the founder, ex chancellor, and secretary of KiiT University; and the founder of Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), KIIT International School, Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), KIIT School of Management (KSOM), KIIT School of Rural Management (KSRM), KIIT School of Computer Application (KSCA), KIIT School of Biotechnology (KSBT), KIIT Law School (KLS), KIIT School of Languages (KSOL), Kalinga Institute of Dental Sciences (KIDS) and Kalinga Polytechnic."
Member of national and International bodies
"Pramila Bisoyi is an Indian politician.She was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Aska, Odisha in the Indian general election, 2019 as a member of the Biju Janata Dal.[1]"
""
Basanta Kumar Panda (born 12 May 1961) is a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party from Odisha. He is a member of the Odisha Legislative Assembly for Nuapada and president of state unit of the party.[1]
"Chandrani Murmu is an Indian politician.She was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Keonjhar, Odisha in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the Biju Janata Dal.[1]"
"Ramesh Chandra Majhi born on 9 April 1978) is an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Nabarangpur, Odisha in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the Biju Janata Dal. He is Ex Cabinet Minister for ST & SC Development, Minorities & Backward Classes Welfare, Panchyatraj Department in Government of Odisha."
Early life and education
"Ramesh Chandra Majhi was born to Jadav Majhi and Balamati Majhi on 9 April 1978 in Dandamunda village under Chandahandi tehsil in Nabarangpur district. He has one brother and three sisters.[1] Due to his involvement in politics at a very young age, the lack of attention to his study interrupted his higher studies and further education. Even after holding the post of Minister of State (Ind) for Information & Technology, Majhi was not a graduate; he did not pass his 10+2 exams until April 2011. In 2011 he appeared for his 10+2(Arts) examination under the Council of Higher Secondary Education, Orissa.[2]"
Career
"At the age of 20, Majhi became chairman of Chandahandi Block, at 25 Zilla Parishad member, at 27 youngest legislator of the State and at 31 Minister after being re-elected to the State Assembly.""At 33, Odisha Minister to sit for higher secondary exam"". The Hindu. Chennai, India. 14 March 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:""\""""""\""""""'""""'""}.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url(""//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg/12px-Wikisource-logo.svg.png"")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}</ref>[3]"
"Joined Politics during the tenure of late Biju Patnaik Jan 1997: Elected as Panchayat Samiti Member of ""Dhodipani"" Gram Panchayat under Chandahandi Block. Elected as Chairman, Panchayat Samiti of Chandahandi, Dist.-Nabarangpur Elected as State Executive Member of B.J.D., Orissa Feb 2002: Elected as Zilla Parishad Member of Chandahandi."
Assembly & Parliament Membership
Member of Orissa Legislative Assembly from 2004 to 2009 (13th). Elected from Dabugam and contested from Biju Janata Dal party.[4] Member of Orissa Legislative Assembly from 2009 to date (14th). Elected from Jharigam and contested from Biju Janata Dal party.[4]
"Nitesh Ganga Dev is an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Sambalpur, Odisha in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.[1]"
References
